                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

METHOD OF DECISION – REFERRAL TO POLICE PERMIT REVIEW PANEL. (§ 102.13.01)

  METHOD OF DECISION – REFERRAL TO POLICE PERMIT REVIEW PANEL.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 169,658, Eff. 5/8/94.)	(a)	Police Permit
Review Panel.  There is hereby established a panel known as the Police Permit
Review Panel.	(b)	Membership of the Panel. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,283, Eff.
6/26/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Police Permit Review Panel shall be composed of
seven members, at least two of which shall have expertise which is relevant to
the regulation of charitable organizations and the various activities in which
they engage.  Panel members shall be appointed and may be removed in accordance
with Charter Section 502.  In the case of a vacancy during the term of office
of any member, the same shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor for the
period of the unexpired term subject to the approval of the Council by a
majority vote.  The members of the Panel shall be exempt from all Civil Service
provisions.	(c)	Compensation and Term of Office.  Each member of the Panel
shall be paid $50.00 per meeting attended, but not to exceed $250.00 in any one
calendar month.	The terms of office of the members of the Panel shall be five
years beginning with the first day of July of the respective years, except that
the terms of office of the original five members of the Panel appointed pursuant
to this subsection shall be such that one term shall expire on the first June
30, one term shall expire on the second June 30, one term shall expire on the
third June 30, one term shall expire on the fourth June 30, and one term shall
expire on the fifth June 30 next following the effective date of the appointment
of the original five members.  Thereafter, the terms of the succeeding members
shall be so designated that the term of office of one member shall expire each
year.  The period of term of each member shall be designated in the
appointment.	(d)	Hearing before the Panel.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,283, Eff.
6/26/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Board may refer to the Police Permit Review Panel
any matter within the Board’s jurisdiction relating to the issuance, denial,
suspension, revocation, or conditioning of any permit, or relating to the
endorsement or approval of any charitable organization, or similar matter. 
Once the matter is referred to the Panel, the members thereof shall consider any
report and shall exercise all of the powers and have all of the duties of the
Board with respect to the case.	(e)	Tobacco Retailer’s Permit Administrative
Review.  Matters referred to the Police Permit Review Panel pursuant to Section
46.100 of this Code shall be conducted in conformity with Article 6.9 (Sections
46.90 – 46.101) of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,436, Eff. 1/28/08.)
