                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SUBPOENAS. (§ 102.09)

  SUBPOENAS.	(a)	Authority of Board.  The Board or hearing examiner is
authorized and empowered to summon witnesses for hearings by requesting the City
Clerk, pursuant to Charter Section 217 (Amended by Ord. No. 173,300, Eff.
6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of such
witnesses at a time and place specified.	(b)	Affidavit Required.  The Board,
any Board member, the Secretary of the Board, or the hearing examiner may summon
witnesses for hearings at the request of any party to a proceeding under this
article.  A party to a proceeding under this article desiring the issuance of a
subpoena shall make a written request for the subpoena accompanied by an
affidavit specifying the name and address of the proposed witness and setting
forth in full detail the materiality of his testimony.  If the party seeks a
subpoena duces tecum, the affidavit shall specify in addition the exact matters
or things desired to be produced, and set forth in full detail the materiality
thereof to the issues involved in the case, and state that the witness has the
desired matters or things in his possession or under his
control.	(c)	Penalties.	1.	Ignoring Subpoena. It is a misdemeanor to willfully
ignore a subpoena or subpoena duces tecum issued pursuant to this
article.	2.	Refusal to Testify.  It is a misdemeanor for any person present at
any hearing in obedience to a subpoena or otherwise to willfully refuse to be
sworn or willfully refuse to answer any material or proper question directed to
him by the Board or hearing examiner.
