                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EVIDENCE. (§ 102.10)

  EVIDENCE.	Hearings need not be conducted according to technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses.	(a)	Oral – Oath.  Oral evidence shall be
taken only on oath or affirmation.	(b)	Rights of Parties.  Each party shall
have these rights:	1.	To call and examine witnesses;	2.	To introduce
exhibits;	3.	To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues even though that matter was not covered in the direct examination;	4.	To
impeach any witness regardless of which party first called him to testify;	5.	To
rebut the evidence against him.	(c)	Failure of respondent to Testify.  If
respondent does not testify in his own behalf he may be called and examined as
if under cross-examination.	(d)	Test of Relevancy.  Any relevant evidence shall
be admitted if it is the sort of evidence on which responsible persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the
existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions.	(e)	Hearsay
Evidence.  Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or
explaining any direct evidence but shall not be sufficient in itself to support
a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in civil
actions.	(f)	Privilege.  The rules of privilege shall be effective to the same
extent that they are now or hereafter may be recognized in civil
action.	(g)	Exclusion of Evidence.  Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded.
