                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RIDES. (§ 103.113)

  RIDES.	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this section:	1.	“RIDE” includes any
merry-go-round, Ferris wheel, carousel, rocket ride, looper ride, roller
coaster, dive-ride or other similar device.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person
shall operate or maintain any ride within 500 feet of any dwelling without a
written permit from the Board. A separate application and permit shall be
required for each location. One or more pieces of equipment described in the
application may be installed under one permit at each location.	(c)	Public
Hearings.  The Board shall require a public hearing prior to taking action on
an application for a permit pursuant to this section. The applicant shall cause
to be published a notice of public hearing two times at intervals of not less
than five days, within the 21-day period following the filing of an application,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the district where the business is to
be located. The Board shall cause a suitable public notice to be posted at the
location where the business is to be conducted. The applicant shall bear all
expense involved in printing, publishing and posting such notice. Such public
notice shall conform to rules and regulations adopted by the Board and shall be
designed to inform the public as to the nature of the business to be engaged in,
its location, the names of the applicant or applicants, the time of the public
hearing and the right of persons objecting to be heard. Any interested person
may file written protests or objections or appear at the hearing. The Board
shall give consideration to all such protests in reaching a decision on such
application. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,649, Eff. 1/6/69.)
