                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS ISSUED PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 103.101.1,
103.102 AND 103.109. (§ 103.34.1)

  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS ISSUED PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 103.101.1,
103.102 AND 103.109.
	(Added by Ord. No. 175,676, Eff. 1/11/04.)	The Board shall, upon its own motion
or upon the verified complaint in writing of any person, suspend or revoke an
existing permit issued pursuant to Sections 103.101.1, 103.102, or 103.109, or
impose conditions upon the retention of the permit as the Board shall find to be
necessary to assure the preservation of the public health and safety, if the
evidence presented establishes that:	1.	The business has been operated in
violation of any of the applicable requirements of this article;	2.	Any of the
applicable requirements for issuance of a permit ceases to be
satisfied;	3.	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,066, Eff. 8/8/04.)  The permittee, his
or her employee, agent, partner, director, officer, or manager has been
convicted by final judgment in a court of competent jurisdiction, which judgment
has resulted from any trial or plea, including a plea of nolo contendere, of any
of the following offenses occurring upon, or relating to the business
premises:	(a)	The presentation, exhibition or performance of an obscene
production or play;	(b)	The distribution of obscene material or material harmful
to minors;	(c)	Sexual abuse, rape, and any offense classified by the State as an
offense involving sexual crimes against children;	(d)	Prostitution or
pandering;	(e)	Penal Code Sections 243.4, 261, 261.5, 264.1, 266, 266a through
266k, inclusive, 267, 286, 286.5, 288, 288a, 311 through 311.10, inclusive, 314,
315, 316, or 647, or the violation of any crime requiring registration under
California Penal Code Section 290, or violation of any successor sections;	(f)	A
court has declared the business to be a public nuisance.	4.	The permittee, his
or her employee, agent, partner, director, officer, or manager has knowingly
allowed or permitted any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or
masturbation to be committed in or on the business premises, or has knowingly
allowed or permitted prostitution, or solicitation of prostitution on the
premises; or  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,066, Eff. 8/8/04.)	5.	The permittee, his
or her employee, agent, partner, director, officer, or manager has knowingly
made any false, misleading, or fraudulent statements of material fact in the
application for permit, or in any report or record required to be filed with the
Board, or has violated any rule or regulation duly adopted by the Board relating
to the business.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,066, Eff. 8/8/04.)
