                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SUBJECT MATTER OF LIMITATIONS AND/OR CONDITIONS TO A PERMIT. (§ 103.40.2)

  SUBJECT MATTER OF LIMITATIONS AND/OR CONDITIONS TO A PERMIT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 140,008, Eff. 2/20/70.)	The limitations and/or conditions
authorized by Section 103.40.1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code may cover any
matter relating to the activities to be exercised under the permit, the conduct
of the business or the condition of the premises, which will protect the public
welfare including but not limited to the following:	(a)	Restrictions as to hours
during which the permitted activity may occur.	(b)	The employment of designated
persons including the number and the manner in which said persons are to be
employed.	(c)	Necessary sanitary facilities.	(d)	Necessary parking
facilities.	(e)	Minimum seating and/or audience capacity.	(f)	The manner and
time within which the public is to pay in order to gain access to the permitted
activity.	(g)	Where the Board has determined that the cost of City services
incident to the staging of the permitted activity will be increased because of
the permitted activity, the Board may require the permittee to make payment into
the general fund of the City of Los Angeles of an amount equal to the increased
cost for the City Services.	(h)	Where the Board determines there is a
substantial danger of injury or damage to the public and/or property because of
the permitted activity, the Board may require a policy of insurance naming the
City of Los Angeles as an additional insured together with its agents, servants
and employees as a co-insured and/or bond to cover the damage and/or injury
which may occur.  The amounts of the insurance and/or bond, if any, and type of
coverage, are to be determined by the Board after it has determined the nature
and extent of probable danger of injury or damage to the public.
