                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ANTIQUE SHOPS. (§ 103.301)

  ANTIQUE SHOPS.	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this article:	1.	“ANTIQUE
SHOP” means a shop where secondhand merchandise is sold at retail but where at
least 90% measured according to value, of the used or secondhand merchandise on
hand at any time consists of objects of art, bric-a brac, curios, or household
furniture or furnishings, offered for sale upon the basis, express or implied,
that the value of the property, in whole or in substantial part, is derived from
its age or from its historical association.	(b)	Permit Requirements.  The
operator of any antique shop may, in lieu of the secondhand dealers’ permit
required by Section 103.311, apply for and obtain a special permit to conduct an
antique shop. Every application hereunder must be accompanied by an
investigation fee of $50.00. If the application is approved, an additional fee
of $25.00 shall be collected upon the issuance of the permit, except in those
cases where the applicant has already paid the secondhand dealer’s permit fee
for the same place of business. (Amended by Ord. No. 114,879, Eff.
12/20/59.)	(c)	Change of Location.  A change of location may be endorsed upon a
permit hereunder upon written application by a permittee accompanied by a change
of location fee as prescribed in Sec. 103.12.	(d)	Must Comply with Secondhand
Dealers Regulations.  The holder of an antique shop permit shall obey all of
the requirements of this article and the rules and regulations of the Board
pertaining to the receipt, handling, disposal, and sale of secondhand
merchandise generally, but shall be exempt from the hours of business
limitations.
