                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ACTION ON APPLICATION. (§ 103.29.01)

  EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ACTION ON APPLICATION.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,776, Eff. 8/22/11.)	The Executive Director is authorized
to act on behalf of the Board to grant a Police Permit, except for applications
made pursuant to Sections 103.101.1, 103.102 and 103.109, pursuant to the
following:	(a)	If the recommendation of the Department is to grant a Police
Permit without conditions, or with conditions to which the applicant agrees, the
Executive Director, or his or her designee, may grant the permit.	(b)	If the
recommendation of the Department is to grant a Police Permit with conditions
over which the applicant disagrees, the permit application and a report prepared
by the Department shall be forwarded to the Executive Director or his/her
designee for review.  If the Executive Director or designee concurs with the
Department’s recommendation, the application and Department report shall be
forwarded to the Police Permit Review Panel for action.  If the Executive
Director or designee does not concur with the Department’s recommendation, he
or she may grant the permit without conditions.	(c)	If the recommendation of the
Department is to deny the permit application, the permit application and
Department report setting forth the basis for the recommended denial shall be
forwarded to the Executive Director or his or her designee, for review.  If the
Executive Director or designee concurs with the Department’s recommendation,
the application and Department report shall be forwarded to the Police Permit
Review Panel for action.  If the Executive Director or designee does not concur
with the Department’s recommendation, he or she may grant the permit.
