                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CAFE ENTERTAINMENT AND SHOWS. (§ 103.102)

  CAFE ENTERTAINMENT AND SHOWS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,676, Eff. 1/11/04.)	(a)	Cafe Entertainment and Shows
Defined.  As used in this article, the terms “cafe entertainment and shows”
mean every form of live entertainment, music, band or orchestra, act, play,
burlesque, revue, pantomime, scene, song or dance act, participated in by one or
more persons.	These terms shall also include the exhibiting or showing of still
or motion pictures at a public place incidental to the primary business of
selling or offering for sale food or beverages or where food or beverages are
given away.	(b)	Cafe Entertainment and Shows Business Defined.  Cafe
entertainment and shows business means the management or control of any
premises:	1.	To which the public is admitted on a regular basis for the primary
purpose of viewing cafe entertainment and shows;	2.	Not used primarily for cafe
entertainment and shows, but which premises are available on a regular basis,
for the purpose of viewing cafe entertainment and shows;	3.	Not used primarily
for cafe entertainment and shows, but which premises are available, for the
purpose of viewing cafe entertainment and shows, provided however, the premises
has an occupancy of 2500 or more.	(c)	Permit Required.  No person shall engage
in the cafe entertainment and shows business without a written permit from the
Board.	No permit shall be required if the operation of the show is already
permitted under an existing carnival permit.  	The provisions of this section
are not applicable when a band, orchestra or instrumental group with or without
a vocalist performs at a dance, cafe or public place for the purpose of
providing music for dancing and the person or persons conducting, presenting or
managing the dance has a current dance hall, dancing club or public dance
permit.
