                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POST WAR RENEWAL OF LICENSES OF CRAFTSMEN AND OTHERS. (§ 11.03)

  POST WAR RENEWAL OF LICENSES OF CRAFTSMEN AND OTHERS.	(a)	Whenever by any
provision of this Code, any license, permit or certificate of qualification is
required for carrying on any business, trade, craft, profession or occupation
and as a prerequisite the issuance thereof any examination fee shall be required
in any case where the applicant for the license, permit or certificate was
previously the holder of a similar one, provided the applicant shows that his
failure to renew the former license, permit or certificate, or to keep it in
full force and effect, resulted from his induction or entrance into the armed
forces of the United States or of any allied nation, and provided the
application for renewal is made within six months after the applicant’s
honorable discharge from service, and provided proof satisfactory to the issuing
board or officer of the city is furnished by the applicant that he has not been
physically or mentally incapacitated to properly carry on the business, trade,
craft, profession or occupation in question.	(b)	Whenever, as to any such
license, permit or certificate of qualification, a fee is charged both for the
original issuance and for the annual renewal thereof, any application made as
provided in Subsection (a) shall be deemed an application for a renewal, and the
current renewal fee only shall be charged therefor, to be prorated for the
unexpired portion of the license year; except that in no case shall the required
renewal fee be less than $1.00.	(c)	This section shall be construed to apply as
to licenses required under Article I of Chapter 2 of this Code.
