                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VIOLATION OF MUNICIPAL ORDINANCES – CITATION IN LIEU OF TAKING ARRESTED PERSON
BEFORE MAGISTRATE. (§ 11.06)

  VIOLATION OF MUNICIPAL ORDINANCES – CITATION IN LIEU OF TAKING ARRESTED
PERSON BEFORE MAGISTRATE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 142,214, Eff. 8/23/71.)	(a)	In any case in which a person
is arrested for the violation of any provision of this Code, or any ordinance of
this City, by a regularly appointed, salaried officer of the Los Angeles Police
Department, or by any peace officer, and such person does not demand to be taken
before a magistrate, such arresting officer may prepare a written notice to
appear and release the person on his promise to appear, as prescribed by Chapter
5C (commencing with Section 853.6) of the Penal Code. The provision of such
chapter shall thereafter apply with reference to any proceeding based upon the
issuance of a written notice to appear pursuant to this authority.	(b)	In any
case in which a person is arrested for the violation of any provision of this
Code, or any ordinance of this City, by any officer or employee of this City who
is not a peace officer, but who has been authorized by ordinance pursuant to
Penal Code Section 836.5 to make such arrests, and such person does not demand
to be taken before a magistrate, such arresting officer or employee shall
prepare a written notice to appear and release the person on his promise to
appear as prescribed by Chapter 5C (commencing with Section 853.6) of the Penal
Code. The provisions of such code shall thereafter apply with reference to any
proceeding based upon the issuance of a written notice to appear pursuant to
this authority.
