                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CITY DEPARTMENTS EXEMPT FROM PAYING FEES OR CHARGES REQUIRED BY THIS CODE. (§
11.08)

  CITY DEPARTMENTS EXEMPT FROM PAYING FEES OR CHARGES REQUIRED BY THIS
CODE.	(a)	Notwithstanding any other Provision of this Code to the contrary, no
budgetary department, bureau or office of the City shall pay any fee or charge
required by this Code for any license or permit, or for the performance of any
official service provided for in this Code; nor shall any fee or charge
otherwise imposed by this Code be required in connection with the relocation or
restoration of buildings or structures determined pursuant to Article 5 of
Chapter 7 of Division 22 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code to be historical
or cultural monuments, and which have been, or are in the process of being,
permanently located at a site or facility approved by the City Council for the
purposes of preserving, maintaining, and exhibiting such monuments. (Amended by
Ord. No. 147,994, Eff. 2/21/76. )	(b)	This section shall not apply to any
department, bureau or office of this City which has control of its own funds,
except the Library and Recreation and Parks Departments; or to fees or charges
which are reimbursable from any of the following Funds: Revolving, Trust, Bond
or Capital Improvement Projects.	(c)	In order to receive such exemption,
however, an such exempt departments, bureaus or offices shall attach to each
permit or license application a written certification signed by the
administrative head of the department, bureau or office that such permit or
license is not to be reimbursed from a Revolving, Trust, Bond or Capital
Improvement Project Fund. Provided further that any permittee or license exempt
under the provisions of Section (a) hereof because such permit or license is
sought in connection with the relocation or restoration of buildings or
structures determined to be cultural or historical monuments, as provided for
herein, shall attach to each permit or license application a written
certification by the Cultural Heritage Board that such building or structure is
a cultural or historical monument and is being relocated to or improved upon a
site or facility approved by the City Council for the purposes of preserving,
maintaining and exhibiting such monuments. (Amended by Ord. No. 147,994, Eff.
2/21/76.)
