                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“RS” SUBURBAN ZONE. (§ 12.07.1)

  “RS” SUBURBAN ZONE.	The following regulations shall apply in the “RS”
Suburban Zone:	A.	Use — No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such
uses as may be permitted therein:	1.	One-family dwellings.	2.	Parks, playgrounds
or community centers, owned and operated by a governmental agency.	3.	(Amended
by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)  Truck gardening; the keeping of equines,
poultry, rabbits and chinchillas in conjunction with the residential use of the
lot, provided that:	(a)	Such animal keeping is not for commercial
purposes.	(b)	The keeping of equines shall be permitted only on lots having an
area of 20,000 square feet or more. Where equines are being kept, the number of
such animals being kept shall not exceed one for each 5,000 square feet of lot
area.	4.	Two-family dwellings on lots having a side lot line adjoining a lot in
a commercial or industrial Zone, provided that:  (Amended by Ord. No. 126,309,
Eff. 2/13/64.)	(a)	The lot on which the dwelling is located does not extend more
than 75 feet from the boundary of the less restricted Zone which it
adjoins;	(b)	There is a minimum lot area of 7,500 square feet for each
two–family dwelling.	5.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff.
8/19/97.)	6.	Accessory buildings, including private garages, accessory living
quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation rooms, or private stables, provided
that:	(a)	No accessory living quarters nor servant’s quarters are located or
maintained on a lot having an area of less than 15,000 square feet;	(b)	No
stable is located or maintained on a lot having an area of less than 20,000
square feet and its capacity does not exceed one equine or each 5,000 square
feet of lot area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff. 11/22/82.)	(c)	An
accessory living quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation room or private
garage or any combination of said uses may be included within one building not
exceeding two stories in height.	(d)	Automobile parking space is required in
connection with permitted uses and additional space may be provided in
accordance with the provisions of Sec. 12.21A.	For the location of accessory
buildings, refer to Sec. 12.21C and Sec. 12.22C.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884,
Eff. 9/23/56.)	7.	Conditional uses enumerated in Sec. 12.24 when the location is
approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
117,450, Eff. 12/18/60.)	8.	Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the
conditions specified in Section 12.05 A 16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	9.	Name plates and signs as provided for in
Section 12.21 A of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper.
3/5/97.)	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public
Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community
or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having existing lakes, waterways,
reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as
the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of
Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation
proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of
this Code.	C.	Area (Development Standards).  (First Para. Amended by Ord. No.
179,883, Eff. 6/29/08.)  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following yards,
lot areas, and floor area limitations are provided and maintained in connection
with the building, structure, or enlargement:	1.	Front Yard. There shall be a
front yard or not less than 20% of the depth of the lot, but such front yard
need not exceed 25 feet provided, however, that where all of the developed lots
which have front yards that vary in depth by not more than 10 feet comprise 40%
or more of the frontage, the minimum front yard depth shall be the average depth
of the front yards of such lots. Where there are two or more possible
combinations of developed lots comprising 40% or more of the frontage each of
which has front yards that vary in depth by not more than ten feet, the minimum
front yard depth shall be the average depth of the front yards of that
combination which has the shallowest average depth. In determining the required
front yard, buildings located on key lots, entirely on the rear half of lots, or
on lots in the “C” or “M” Zones, shall not be counted, provided,
however, that nothing contained in this paragraph shall be deemed to require
front yards which exceed 40 feet in depth.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,155, Eff.
10/16/69.)	On key lots the minimum front yard may be the average of the required
front yard for the adjoining interior lot and the required side yard along the
street side of a reversed corner lot, but such minimum front yard may apply for
a distance or not more than 85 feet from the rear lot line of the reversed
corner lot, beyond which point the front yard specified in the above paragraph
shall apply. Where existing buildings on either or both of said adjoining lots
are located nearer to the front or side lot lines than the yard required by this
article, the yards established by such existing buildings may be used in
computing the required front yard for a key lot.	2.	Side Yards.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 169,775, Eff. 6/2/94.)	(a)	For a main building not more than
two-stories in height, there shall be a side yard on each side of the building
of not less than five feet, except that where the lot is less than 50 feet in
width, the side yard may be reduced to ten percent of the width of the lot, but
in no event to less than three feet in width.  For a building more than
two-stories in height, one-foot shall be added to the width of each yard for
each additional story above the second story.	(b)	In lieu of the additional
one-foot side yard for each story above the second story as required above, for
new construction of a main building or a ground floor addition to the main
building on a lot not located in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, one-foot shall
be added to each required side yard for each increment of ten feet or fraction
thereof above the first 18 feet.	(c)	Side yard requirements in specific plans,
Historic Preservation Overlay Zones or in subdivision approvals shall take
precedence over this subdivision.  This subdivision shall apply in these areas,
however, when there are no such side yard requirements.	3.	Rear Yard.  There
shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet in depth.  (Amended by Ord. No.
121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)	4.	Lot Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 153,478, Eff.
4/12/80.)  Every lot shall have a minimum width of 60 feet and a minimum area
of 7,500 square feet. The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall also be 7,500
square feet, except for two–family dwellings on lots having a side lot line
adjoining a lot in a commercial or industrial Zone as provided for in Subsection
A of this section.	Provided, however, that on property located within the
“RS” Zone and also within a “H” Hillside or Mountainous Area for which a
General Plan including dwelling unit densities has been adopted by the City
Council, the number of lots may be limited and the minimum required areas may be
increased so that the number of dwelling units permitted will not substantially
exceed the densities shown on the Plan.	There may be lots with less than the
minimum required width and area, as provided by Section 17.05–H of this Code,
and there may be a single–family dwelling on each such lot if the lot is shown
with a separate letter or lot number on a recorded Subdivision Tract Map or
Parcel Map.	Further exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section
12.22C.	5.	Maximum Residential Floor Area.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,883, Eff.
6/29/08.)  For a lot located in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, the maximum
floor area shall comply with Section 12.21.1 A.1. of this Code.	For all other
lots, the maximum residential floor area contained in all buildings and
accessory buildings shall not exceed 45 percent of the lot area, except that
when the lot is 9,000 square feet or greater, then the residential floor area
shall not exceed 40 percent of the lot area or 4,050 square feet, whichever is
greater.	An additional 20 percent of the maximum residential floor area for that
lot shall be allowed if any of the methods listed below is utilized.  Only one
20 percent bonus per property is allowed.	(a)	The total residential floor area
of each story other than the base floor in a multi-story building does not
exceed 75 percent of the base floor area; or  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,479,
Eff. 12/27/10.)	(b)	The cumulative length of the exterior walls facing the front
lot line, equal to a minimum of 25 percent of the building width shall be
stepped-back a distance of at least 20 percent of the building depth from a
plane parallel to the lot width established at the point of the building closest
to the front lot line.  When the front lot line is not straight, a line
connecting the points where the side lot lines and the front lot line intersect
shall be used.  When through lots have two front yards, the step-back shall be
provided along both front lot lines.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,479, Eff.
12/27/10.)	For the purposes of this provision, all exterior walls that intersect
a plane parallel to the front lot line at 45 degrees or less shall be considered
to be facing the front lot line.  The building width shall be the greatest
distance between the exterior walls of the building measured parallel to the lot
width.  The building depth shall be the greatest distance between the exterior
walls of the building measured parallel to the lot depth; or	(c)	For new single
family dwelling construction only, the new construction shall be in substantial
compliance with the requirements for the U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC)
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®) for Homes program at the
“Certified” level or higher.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,479, Eff.
12/27/10.)	Prior to submitting an application to the Department of Building and
Safety for a building permit, the applicant shall be required to obtain an
authorization to submit for plan check from the Department of Planning.  In
order to obtain this authorization, the applicant shall
provide:	(1)	Documentation that the project has been registered with the
USGBC’s LEED® for Homes Program, and that the required fees have been
paid;	(2)	A preliminary checklist from a USGBC-contracted LEED® for Homes
Provider, which demonstrates that the project can be registered with the LEED®
for Homes Program with a target of certification at the “Certified” or
higher level; 	(3)	A signed declaration from the USGBC-contracted LEED® for
Homes Provider stating that the plans and plan details have been reviewed, and
confirms that the project can be registered with the LEED® for Homes Program
with a target certification at the “Certified” or higher level; and	(4)	A
complete set of plans stamped and signed by a licensed architect or engineer
that include a copy of the preliminary checklist and signed declaration
identified in Subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph and identify the
measures being provided for LEED® Certification.  Each plan sheet must also be
signed by a USGBC-contracted LEED® for Homes Provider verifying that the plans
are consistent with the submitted preliminary checklist.	(5)	Termination and
Replacement.  The reference to the U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC)
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®) for Homes program and 
requirement to obtain an authorization from the Department of Planning for a
plan check described in Paragraph (c) shall no longer apply to projects filed on
or after January 1, 2011.  Projects filed on or after January 1, 2011, must
satisfy LA Green Building Code, as defined in Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
99.01.101.1, Tier 1 or higher in order to obtain additional floor area as
described in Subdivision 5.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,479, Eff. 12/27/10.)	The
Department of Building and Safety shall refer applicants to the Department of
Planning prior to issuance of a building permit to obtain a clearance to verify
the project compliance with the originally approved plans.	If changes are made
to the project, the applicant shall be required to submit a revised set of
plans, including the four requirements listed above, with all revisions
necessary to make the project in substantial compliance with the requirements
for LEED® Certification.	6.	Verification of Existing Residential Floor Area. 
(Added by Ord. No. 179,883, Eff. 6/29/08.)  For additions with cumulative
residential floor area of less than 1,000 square feet constructed after January
1, 2008, or remodels of buildings built prior to January 1, 2008, the existing
residential floor area shall be the same as the building square footage shown on
the most recent Los Angeles County Tax Assessor’s records at the time the
plans are submitted to the Department of Building and Safety and a plan check
fee is paid.  Except that residential floor area may be calculated as defined
in Section 12.03 of this Code when a complete set of fully dimensioned plans
with area calculations of all the structures on the lot, prepared by a licensed
architect or engineer, is submitted by the applicant.	Any work that does not
qualify as a remodel, as defined in the paragraph below, or additions that are
1,000 square feet or larger shall require a complete set of fully dimensioned
plans with area calculations of all the structures on the lot prepared by a
licensed architect or engineer.	For the purposes of implementing this
subdivision, a remodel shall mean the alteration of an existing building or
structure provided that at least 50 percent of the perimeter length of the
contiguous exterior walls and 50 percent of the roof are retained.
