                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“PF” PUBLIC FACILITIES ZONE. (§ 12.04.09)

  “PF” PUBLIC FACILITIES ZONE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 166,972, Eff. 6/30/91.)	The following regulations shall
apply in the “PF” Public Facilities Zone:	A.	Purpose.  It is the purpose of
the “PF” Public Facilities Zone to provide regulations for the use and
development of publicly owned land in order to implement the City’s adopted
General Plan, including, the circulation and service systems designations in the
City’s adopted district and community plans, and other relevant General Plan
elements, including the circulation, public recreation and service systems
elements.	B.	Use.  The following regulations shall apply to publicly owned land
classified in the “PF” Public Facilities Zone. No building, structure or
land shall be used and no building or structure shall be erected, moved onto a
site, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the following
uses:	1.	Farming and nurseries, under power transmission rights-of-way. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)	2.	Public parking facilities
located under freeway rights-of-way.	3.	Fire stations and police
stations.	4.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Government
buildings, structures, offices and service facilities including maintenance
yards, provided, however, that those uses identified in Section 12.24U21 shall
require conditional use approval pursuant to that section.	5.	Public libraries
not located inside public parks.	6.	Post offices and related
facilities.	7.	Public health facilities, including clinics and
hospitals.	8.	Public elementary and secondary schools.	9.	Any joint public and
private development uses permitted in the most restrictive adjoining zones if
approved by the Director utilizing the procedures described in Section 16.05E to
H. The phrase “adjoining zones” refers to the zones on properties abutting,
across the street or alley from or having a common corner with the subject
property. If there are two or more different adjoining zones, then only the uses
permitted by the most restrictive zone shall be permitted.	10.	(Amended by Ord.
No. 174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)  Conditional uses as allowed pursuant to Section
12.24 U 21 and Section 12.24 W 49 of this Code when the location is approved
pursuant to the provisions of the applicable section.
