                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 12.03)

  DEFINITIONS.	For the purpose of Article 2 to 6 inclusive of this chapter,
certain terms and words are herewith defined as follows:	ABANDONED AUTOMOBILE. 
Any motor vehicle, which when operated upon a highway is required to be
registered by the California Vehicle Code, whose registration has been expired
for a period of six months or more. Notwithstanding the foregoing definition, a
motor vehicle stored within a permitted building or structure shall not be
considered to be an abandoned automobile.  (Added by Ord. No. 131,925, Eff.
4/11/66.)	ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A detached subordinate building, the use of
which is customarily incidental to that of the main building or to the main use
of the land and which is located in the same or a less restrictive zone and on
the same lot with the main building or use. The relationship between the more
restrictive and the less restrictive zones shall be determined by the sequence
of zones set forth in Sec. 12.23 B.1.(c).  (Amended by Ord. No. 106,571, Eff.
1/1/56.)	ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS.  An accessory building used solely as the
temporary dwelling of guests of the occupants of the premises; such dwelling
having no kitchen facilities and not rented or otherwise used as a separate
dwelling unit.  (Added by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	ACCESSORY USE. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  A use, which is customarily
incidental to that of the main building or the main use of the land and which is
located in the same zone or a less restrictive zone and on the same lot with a
main building or main use.  The relationship between the more restrictive zones
and the less restrictive zones shall be determined by the sequence of zones set
forth in Section 12.23 B. of this Code.	The garaging, maintaining or storage of
any commercial vehicle on private property which exceeds a registered net weight
of 5,600 pounds shall not be considered an accessory use in the “R” Zones.
The rental, storage, or storage for rental purposes of a commercial vehicle
which exceeds a registered net weight of 5,600 pounds shall not be considered an
accessory use in any zone more restrictive than the MR-1 Zone, except as
approved by conditional use.	An accessory use shall also include the keeping of
domestic animals, subject to other provisions of this article; and the keeping
of wild animals, under an appropriate permit issued by the Department of Animal
Services as provided for in Section 53.38 of the Code, but in no event including
the following wild animals: bear, civet, coyote, eagle, eland, elephant, elk,
giraffe, gnu, gorilla, hyena, hippopotamus, jaguar, leopard, lion, lynx, moose,
orangutan, venomous reptile, puma, rhinoceros, sea lion, tiger, vulture, walrus,
wart hog, wolf or yak.	The sale of not more than one dog or cat litter from a
domestic household in a 12- month period shall be considered accessory to a
residential use.	The noncommercial keeping of birds (not including fowl) without
regard to their number shall be an accessory use in the RA, RE, RS, R1, RU and
RZ Zones. However, if the Department of Animal Services determines that the
keeping of birds or the keeping of a particular number of birds at a particular
location constitutes a nuisance or a health or safety hazard, then the keeping
of birds under those circumstance shall not be an accessory use.	For the
purposes of this section, the occasional sale of birds which is incidental to
the keeping of birds as a hobby, does not constitute a commercial use.	Garage
and/or yard sales shall be considered accessory to a residential use, if the
sale is only incidental to the individual’s residential occupancy of the
premises; and	1.	The sales are confined to the sale of used items which were
originally received or purchased for use in the household; and	2.	The sales are
restricted to a maximum of five sales events per calendar year as a means of
disposing of used items originally received or purchased for use in the
household; and	3.	The sales are limited to not more than two consecutive days
per event; and	4.	The sales are limited to not more than ten days per calendar
year total; and	5.	The sales are limited to the hours between 9 a.m. and 5
p.m.	For purposes of this section, the term accessory use shall not apply to any
garage and/or yard sales where new goods or merchandise, or items that were not
intended to be used in the household are offered or displayed for sale or
exchange.  (“Department of Animal Regulation” renamed “Department of
Animal Services” by Ord. No. 174,735, Eff. 9/13/02.)	ADDITION, GROUND FLOOR. 
An expansion of the exterior perimeter of a building measured at five feet or
more above adjacent grade at any point.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,775, Eff.
6/2/94.)	ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION.  Same as grade.  (Amended by Ord. No.
131,309, Eff. 4/24/66.)	ADMINISTRATOR – See “Zoning
Administrator”.	AGRICULTURAL WASTE.  All plant materials generated from the
growing and harvesting of agricultural crops, vegetables and fruits.  (Added by
Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)	AIRPORT OR AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD.  Any runway
landing area or other facility designed, used, or intended to be used either
publicly or privately by any person for the landing and taking off of aircraft
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tiedown areas, hangars
and other necessary buildings and open spaces.	ALZHEIMER’S/DEMENTIA CARE
HOUSING.  Residential housing that is licensed by the California Department of
Social Services and provides 24-hour care for people suffering from
Alzheimer’s disease or other disorders resulting in dementia.  The
residential units shall be guest rooms only.  The housing may be a component of
an Eldercare Facility.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)	ANIMAL
KEEPING ENCLOSURE.  Any structure or fence which establishes the perimeter of
an animal keeping and maintenance area.  (Added by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff.
11/22/82.)	ANIMAL KEEPING STRUCTURE.  Any structure, as defined by this Code,
which has a roof and may have one or more sides and is used in whole or in part
for the housing or shelter of animals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,352, Eff.
7/20/86.)	APARTMENT.  Same as dwelling unit.  (Added by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff.
9/23/56.)	APARTMENT HOTEL.  A residential building designed or used for both
two or more dwelling units and six or more guest rooms or suites of rooms.
(Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	APARTMENT HOUSE.  A residential
building designed or used for three or more dwelling units or a combination of
three or more dwelling units and not more than five guest rooms or suites of
rooms.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	AREA PLANNING
COMMISSIONS.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00; and
Amended by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)  Each Area Planning Commission shall
consist of five members.  Members shall be appointed and removed in the same
manner as members of  the City Planning Commission, except that residency in
the area served by the  Area Planning Commission shall be a qualification for
appointment.  Except as provided in Paragraph (d), Area Planning Commissions
are quasi-judicial agencies.	Each Area Planning Commission, with respect to
matters concerning property  located in the area served by the Area Planning
Commission, shall have and exercise the power to:	(a)	hear and determine appeals
where it is alleged there is error or abuse  of discretion in any order,
requirement, decision, interpretation or other determination  made by a Zoning
Administrator;
	(b)	hear and make decisions on any matter normally under the jurisdiction  of
a Zoning Administrator when that matter has been transferred to the
jurisdiction  of the Area Planning Commission because the Zoning Administrator
has failed  to act within the time limits prescribed by ordinance;	(c)	hear and
determine applications for, or appeals related to, conditional use permits  and
other similar quasi-judicial approvals, in accordance with procedures 
prescribed by ordinance;	(d)	make recommendations with respect to zone changes
or similar matters  referred to it from the City Planning Commission pursuant
to Charter Section 562; and	(e)	hear and determine other matters delegated to it
by ordinance.	Notwithstanding the above, the City Planning Commission shall make
decisions on any matter that would otherwise be heard by an Area Planning
Commission if the matter involves a project which crosses the boundaries of the
area served by more than one Area Planning Commission.	ASSISTED LIVING CARE
HOUSING.  Residential housing that is licensed by the California Department of
Social Services and provides assistance to people 62 years of age or older who
require assistance with two or more non-medical activities of daily living as
defined in the Department of Social Services licensing requirements.  The
residential units may consist either of dwelling units or guest rooms.  Full
time medical services shall not be provided on the premises.  The housing may
be a component of an Eldercare Facility.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff.
12/30/06.)	AUTOMOBILE DISMANTLING YARD.  Any property or place where the
business of an automobile dismantler, as defined by California Vehicle Code
Section 220, is conducted. (Added by Ord. No. 152,770, Eff. 9/15/79.)	AUTOMOBILE
FOR HIRE.  An automobile for hire is a motor vehicle, other than a commercial
vehicle with registered net weight in excess of 5,600 pounds, which is let or
rented or offered for rental, lease or hire to another for consideration. 
(Added by Ord. No. 148,857, Eff. 10/31/76.)	AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA. 
An open area other than a street, used for the display, sale or rental of new or
used automobiles or trailers, and where no repair work is done except minor
incidental repair of automobiles or trailers to be displayed, sold or rented on
the premises.	AUTOMOTIVE FUELING AND SERVICE STATION.  A business which
dispenses automotive fuel to the public and may provide the following incidental
services:  tube and tire repairing, battery servicing, automotive lubrication,
mechanical adjustments, changing of spark plugs and other similar maintenance
activities.    (Added by Ord. No. 169,130, Eff. 12/16/93.)	AUTOMOTIVE
REPAIR.  A use involving the diagnosing of malfunctions, repairing or
maintaining of motor vehicles.  Included in this definition are body shops,
paint shops, tire stores, muffler shops, auto electric shops, van conversions,
lubrication centers, auto-sound shops, auto-alarm shops, auto upholstery shops,
wheel alignment shops and other similar automotive related repair or
installation businesses; automotive repair does not include automotive fueling
and service stations as defined in this section and installers of automotive
telecommunication devices and computers.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,130, Eff.
12/16/93.)	AUTOMOTIVE USE.  The primary sale of used automobiles.  In
addition, this phrase shall include automotive repair and automobile and trailer
sales area, as defined in this section.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff.
3/24/07.)	BACHELOR APARTMENT.  Same as Efficiency Dwelling Unit.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 138,456, Eff. 5/30/69.)	BASE FLOOR.  That story of a main building, at
or above grade, which is not considered a basement, and which has the greatest
number of square feet confined within the exterior walls, including the area of
the attached covered parking at the same story.  All levels within four
vertical feet of each other shall count as a single story.  (Added by Ord. No.
179,883, Eff. 6/29/08.)	BASEMENT.  Any story below the first story of a
building.  (Amended by Ord. No. 131,309, Eff. 4/24/66.)	BED AND BREAKFAST
FACILITY.  A building or portion thereof which is used as a temporary lodging
place for fewer than thirty consecutive days and which does not contain more
than five guest rooms and one kitchen.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,792, Eff.
10/4/99.)	BLOODMOBILE.  A vehicle, or portable structure transported by a
vehicle, easily transportable in one or more sections, which is used to provide
blood collection services on a temporary basis in any one location.  (Added by
Ord. No. 166,045, Eff. 8/17/90.)	BOARD.  (Repealed by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE.  A dwelling containing a
single dwelling unit and not more than five guest rooms or suites of rooms,
where lodging is provided with or without meals, for compensation.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	BUILDABLE AREA.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,662,
Eff. 8/17/97.)  All that portion of a lot located within the proper zone for
the proposed main building, excluding those portions of the lot which must be
reserved for yard spaces, building line setback space, or which may only be used
for accessory buildings or uses.  For the purpose of computing the height
district limitations on total floor area in buildings of any height, the
buildable area that would apply to a one-story building on the lot shall be
used.	Notwithstanding the above, in computing the height district limitations on
total floor area for any development of residential dwelling units, or of both
residential dwelling units and commercial uses, in the C2, C4, or C5 zones,
buildable area shall have the same meaning as lot area.  The additional square
footage permitted by this calculation for residential use shall not result in an
increase in the number of dwelling units beyond that which would have otherwise
been permitted but may only be used to increase the floor area or number of
habitable rooms within individual dwelling units.	This alternate definition of
buildable area shall not apply within the following specific plan areas: Central
City West, Century City North, Century City South, Coastal Bluffs,
Devonshire/Topanga Corridor, Foothill Boulevard Corridor, Granada Hills, Oxford
Triangle, Pacific Palisades Commercial Village/Neighborhoods, Playa Vista Area
D, Porter Ranch Land Use/Transportation, San Pedro, Valley Village, and Westwood
Village.  This alternative definition shall also not apply to any lot for which
a “Q” or “D” limitation setting forth a floor area limitation had been
imposed before July 1, 1997.  In the event of a conflict with any other adopted
specific plan, the most restrictive provision shall prevail.	BUILDING.  Any
structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the housing, shelter
or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	CARGO CONTAINER.  Any container
(refrigerated or non-refrigerated) that permits the temporary storage and
protection of cargo, and which may be transported by ship, rail or truck without
intermediate loading and unloading of the contents of the container.  (Added by
Ord. No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)	CARGO CONTAINER STORAGE YARD.  An open-air
site or facility, the primary use of which is the keeping of empty cargo
containers, and equipment, and may have as accessory uses the storage of
container chassis and truck cabs, repair facilities, warehouses and offices
associated with the movement or storage of cargo containers.  This definition
does not include draying, freighting or trucking yards or terminals.  (Added by
Ord. No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)	CEMETERY.  Land used or intended to be used
for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including
columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in
conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.	CHILD CARE
FACILITY.  A facility in which non-residential care is provided for children,
16 years of age or under, when licensed as a day care facility for children by
the State of California or other agency designated by the State, under the
categories defined in Section 30019 of Title 22 of the State of California
Administrative Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 145,474, Eff.
3/2/74.)	CHIPPING/GRINDING FACILITY.  Any facility which temporarily stores
and/or processes source-separated green waste and/or wood waste by means of
chipping, grinding, mixing and/or screening to produce a material of varying
particle size.  The material produced by the above described processes may be
used as ground cover, biofuel, wood chips, animal bedding, worm food or other
similar uses.  This definition shall not include any chipping and/or grinding
of green waste and/or wood waste conducted for noncommercial, nonprofit
purpose.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)	CITY PLANNING COMMISSION. 
(Added by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00 and Amended by Ord. No.
173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)  The Board of Commissioners of the City Planning
Department shall be known as the City Planning Commission and shall consist of
nine members.  It shall:	(a)	give advice and make recommendations to the Mayor,
Council,  Director of Planning, municipal departments and agencies with respect
to City planning and related activities and legislation;	(b)	make
recommendations concerning amendment of the General Plan and proposed zoning
ordinances in accordance with Charter Sections 555 and 558;	(c)	make reports and
recommendations to the Council and to other governmental officers or agencies as
may be necessary to implement and secure compliance with the General
Plan;	(d)	perform other functions prescribed by the Charter or
ordinance;	(e)	make decisions on any matter that would otherwise be heard by an
Area Planning Commission if the matter involves a project which crosses the
boundaries of the area served by more than one Area Planning Commission;
and	(f)	adopt guidelines for the administration of the provisions of this
chapter if it  determines that guidelines are necessary and appropriate. 
Authority to adopt guidelines for the administration of the provisions of this
chapter may be delegated to others by adoption of a resolution by Council. 
Existing provisions of this chapter that delegate authority for the adoption of
guidelines to others shall continue to apply with respect to those
provisions.	COMMERCIAL COACH.  A vehicle with or without motive power, designed
and equipped for human occupancy for industrial, professional or commercial
purposes.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)
	COMMERCIAL CORNER DEVELOPMENT.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,223, Eff.
6/30/03.)	(1)	Any commercially used corner lot located in a C or M zone in
Height District Nos. 1, 1-L, 1-VL or 1-XL, the lot line of which adjoins, is
separated only by an alley adjacent to, or is located across the street from,
any portion of a lot zoned A or R, or improved with any residential use (except
in an M zone), or 	(2)	Any multi-family residentially used corner lot located
in a C zone in Height District Nos. 1, 1-L, 1-VL or 1-XL, the lot line of which
adjoins, is separated only by an alley adjacent to, or is located across the
street from, any portion of a lot zoned RW1 or more restrictive zone.	For
purposes of this definition, a Commercial Corner Development can be located on
more than one lot only if the lots are adjacent, not divided by a public street,
have a common parking area, and one or more buildings are erected or are
proposed to be erected upon the lots. 	COMMISSION.  (Repealed by Ord. No.
173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)	COMMUNITY APARTMENT PROJECT.  The same as defined by
Section 11004 of the California Business and Professions Code.  (Added by Ord.
No. 151,432, Eff. 10/12/78.)	COMPACTION.  The densification of a Fill by
mechanical means.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	COMPOSTING
FACILITY.  Any facility which processes source- separated organic materials to
a stabilized state through controlled biological decomposition where the
resultant material is beneficial to plant growth or soil structure when used as
a soil amendment.  Materials may initially be chipped, shredded, and/or
screened on site prior to being composted.  Composting may be conducted in an
in-vessel system or in the open, such as windrow composting or aerated static
pile composting.  This definition shall not include any composting of green
waste and/or wood waste conducted for noncommercial, nonprofit purpose.  (Added
by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)	CONDOMINIUM.  The same as defined by Section
783 of the California Civil Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 151.432. Eff.
10/12/78.)	CONVERSION PROJECT, COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL.  An existing building
used exclusively for commercial or industrial purposes, or both, proposed for
conversion to a condominium or stock cooperative to be used exclusively for such
purposes through approval of a tract or parcel map. For purposes of this
definition, the term “existing” means that the building was constructed
prior to 1945, or if it was built after 1945, a certificate of occupancy was
issued for the building prior to the time of map application. (Added by Ord. No.
154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.)	CONVERSION PROJECT, COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL TO
RESIDENTIAL.  An existing building used exclusively for commercial or
industrial purposes, or both, proposed for conversion to a condominium, stock
cooperative or community apartment to be used exclusively for residential
purposes through approval of a tract or parcel map. For purposes of this
definition, the term “existing” means that the building was constructed
prior to 1945 or, if it was built after 1945, a certificate of occupancy was
issued for the building prior to the time of map application.  (Added by Ord.
No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.)	CONVERSION PROJECT, RESIDENTIAL.  An existing
apartment house, apartment hotel, hotel, multiple dwelling or group dwelling
used exclusively for residential purposes proposed for conversion to a
condominium, stock cooperative, or community apartment project to be used
exclusively for residential purposes through approval of a tract or parcel map.
For purposes of this definition, the term “existing” means that the building
was constructed prior to 1945 or, if it was built after 1945, a certificate of
occupancy has been issued for the building prior to the time of map
application.  (Amended by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.)	CONVERSION PROJECT,
RESIDENTIAL TO COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL.  An existing apartment house, apartment
hotel, hotel, multiple dwelling or group dwelling used exclusively for
residential purposes  proposed for conversion to a condominium or stock
cooperative which is to be used exclusively for commercial or industrial
purposes through approval of a tract or parcel map. For purposes of this
definition, the term “existing” means that the building was constructed
prior to 1945 or, if it was built after 1945, a certificate of occupancy was
issued for the building prior to the time of map application.  (Added by Ord.
No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.)	CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS OR REGIONAL HOME OFFICE. 
(Added by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)  The main administrative center or
centers of one or more enterprises whose day-to-day functions is the retrieval
and/or dissemination of information to a subsidiary and/or client business in
and outside the City’s jurisdiction, through the means of electronic or data
processing.	COUNSELING AND REFERRAL FACILITY.  (Added by Ord. No. 149,517. Eff.
5/26/77.)  A neighborhood facility which provides counseling services and
subsequently refers applicants to appropriate licensed social service agencies
offering professional remedial assistance. Counseling and referral services may
be offered in one or more of the following areas: welfare, housing, employment,
health, education, legal matters, job development, consumer action, recreation,
family problems, juvenile problems, probation, and neighborhood improvement.
Tutoring and legal aid shall be permitted as an accessory use only.	The facility
may also administer the implementation of government funded programs established
to provide low-income housing, job development classes and recreation.	The
facility shall:	(a)	permit no more than 5 employees, and;	(b)	where located in a
residentially developed area, maintain the residential character of the exterior
of the building.	CURB LEVEL.  The level of the established curb in front of the
building measured at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been
established, the City Engineer shall establish such curb level or its equivalent
for the purpose of this article.	CURING FACILITY.  Any composting facility, as
defined by this Code, where additional and/or final biological stabilization is
attained after most of the readily metabolized material has been decomposed, and
where no chipping, grinding, or screening of material takes place.  This
definition shall not include any curing of green waste and/or wood waste
conducted for noncommercial, nonprofit purpose.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054,
11/13/94.)	CUT.  A portion of land surface or areas from which earth has been
removed or will be removed by excavation.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)	DANCE HALL.  Any place where public dances are held or conducted,
other than when incidental to the operation of a hotel, apartment hotel, banquet
room, catering hall, church, school or lodge.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,990,
Eff. 9/17/94.)	DANCE HALL, HOSTESS.  Any dance hall or place conducting public
dances where partners are provided for dancing or social contacts by those
conducting, managing, maintaining or operating such public dances for patrons or
guests and for which such patrons or guests pay a fee or other consideration. 
(Added by Ord. No. 155,718, Eff. 8/6/81.)	DANCE, PUBLIC.  A gathering of
persons in or upon any premises where dancing is participated in and to which
premises the public is admitted. (Added by Ord. No. 155,718, Eff. 8/6/81.)	DAY
CARE FACILITY.  Same as Child Care Facility.  (Added by Ord. No. 145,474, Eff.
3/2/74.)	DAY-CARE HOME.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 173,085, Eff. 3/19/00.)	DAY-CARE
HOME, LARGE FAMILY.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 173,085, Eff. 3/19/00.)	DAY-CARE
HOME, SMALL FAMILY.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 173,085, Eff. 3/19/00.)	DESTROYED.
Damaged so as to not be habitable as determined by the Department of Building
and Safety.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,144, Eff. 12/28/79.)	DINING AREA. A recess
from a room or an alcove, adjoining and interconnected with the kitchen by a
door or opening.  (Added by Ord. No. 146,421, Eff. 9/14/74.)	DIRECTOR OF
PLANNING (DIRECTOR).  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,455, Eff. 9/22/00.)  The chief
administrative officer of the Department of City Planning shall be known as the
Director of Planning and shall be appointed and removed as provided in Charter
Section 508.  The Director shall be chosen on the basis of administrative and
technical qualifications, with special reference to actual experience in and
knowledge of accepted practice in the field of city planning.  The Director
shall interpret the meaning of the General Plan and specific plans in instances
when there is a lack of clarity in the meaning of those regulations, subject to
appellate review.  The Director may appoint a designee to act on his or her
behalf, in which case, references in this Code and other land use ordinances to
Director shall include this designee, unless otherwise stated.	In accordance
with Charter Section 553, the Director of Planning or his or her designee
shall:	(a)	prepare the proposed General Plan of the City and proposed
amendments  to the General Plan;	(b)	prepare all proposed zoning and other land
use regulations and requirements, including maps of all proposed districts or
zones;	(c)	make investigations and  act on the design and improvement of all
proposed subdivisions of land as the advisory agency under the State Subdivision
Map Act; and	(d)	have additional powers and duties as are provided by
ordinance.	DISASTER. Fire, flood, wind, earthquake, or other calamity, act of
God or the public enemy.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,144, Eff.
12/28/79.)	DORMITORY. A guest room designed, intended or occupied as sleeping
quarters by more than two persons. Every 100 square feet of superficial floor
area in a dormitory shall be considered as a separate guest room.  (Added by
Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	DOWNTOWN DESIGN GUIDE PROJECT AREA.  (Added by
Ord. No. 181,557, Eff. 3/15/11.)  Those portions of the Central City Community
Plan Area as shown in the shaded portion of Map A, dated April 30, 2010, and
attached to Council File No. 10-1196, generally bounded by:	U.S. Highway 101 on
the north, Alameda Street on the east, Second Street on the south, and Harbor
Freeway (110 Freeway) on the west;	Fourth and Fifth Streets on the north, the
alley easterly of Hill Street (Lindley Place), Grand Avenue, and Olive Street on
the east, Olympic Boulevard and James M. Wood Boulevard on the south, and Harbor
Freeway (110 Freeway) on the west;	Olympic Boulevard and Eleventh Street on the
north, Figueroa Street on the east, Santa Monica Freeway (Interstate 10) on the
south, and the Harbor Freeway (110 Freeway) on the west; and,	Ninth Street on
the north, Crocker Street on the east, Twelfth Street on the south, and Main
Street on the west.	DRIVE-THROUGH FAST-FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  Any establishment
which dispenses food for consumption on or off the premises to an individual in
a vehicle.  (Added by Ord. No. 166,904, Eff. 5/18/91.)	DWELLING. Any
residential building, other than an Apartment House, Hotel or Apartment Hotel. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	DWELLING, GROUP. Two or more
one-family, two-family or multiple dwelling, apartment houses or boarding or
rooming houses, located on the same lot.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff.
9/23/56.)	DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A dwelling containing two dwelling units and not
more than five guest rooms.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff.
9/23/56.)	DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing only one dwelling
unit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A
dwelling containing two dwelling units. (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff.
9/23/56.)	DWELLING UNIT. A group of two or more rooms, one of which is a
kitchen, designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping
purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	DWELLING UNIT, LOW
INCOME. (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff. 12/7/08.)	DWELLING UNIT, MODERATE
INCOME. (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff. 12/7/08.)	EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS. 
Colleges or universities supported wholly or in part by public funds and other
colleges or universities  giving general academic instruction as prescribed by
the State Board of Education.	EFFICIENCY DWELLING UNIT.  A room located within
an apartment house or apartment hotel used or intended to be used for
residential   purposes which has a kitchen and living and sleeping quarters
combined therein, and which complies with the requirements of Section 91.4930.2
of this Code. (Added by Ord. No. 138,456. Eff. 5/30/69.)	ELDERCARE FACILITY. 
One functionally operated facility, which provides residential housing for
persons 62 years of age and older, and which combines in one facility, two or
more of the following housing types:  Senior Independent Housing, Assisted
Living Care Housing, Skilled Nursing Care Housing, and/or Alzheimer’s/Dementia
Care Housing.  A minimum of 75 percent of the floor area, exclusive of common
areas, shall consist of Senior Independent Housing and/or Assisted Living Care
Housing.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)	ELEVATION.  Vertical
distance in feet above sea level.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)	EQUINE.  Any horse, pony, donkey, burro, or mule which is 12 months of
age or older and is issued a current Equine License by the City Department of
Animal Services. An animal which is under 12 months of age and is the offspring
of or is unweaned and being nursed by a female equine lawfully kept on the
property where said animal is kept shall not be considered an equine and shall
be allowed by right on said property. (“Department of Animal Regulation”
renamed “Department of Animal Services” by Ord. No. 174,735, Eff.
9/13/02.)	EQUINE ENCLOSURE.  Any structure or fence which establishes the
perimeter of an equine keeping and maintenance area.  (Added by Ord. No.
157,144. Eff. 11/22/82.)	FACTORY-BUILT HOME.  A residential building, dwelling
unit, or individual dwelling room or combination of rooms, or building
component, assembly, or system manufactured in such a manner that all concealed
parts or processes of manufacture cannot be inspected before installation at the
building site without disassembly of, or damage or destruction to the part. This
home shall comply with all applicable provisions of the California State
Factory-Built Housing law. The term “factory-built home” shall not include a
mobilehome, mobile accessory building or structure, recreational vehicle, or
commercial coach.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)	FAMILY.  One or
more persons living together in a dwelling unit, with common access to, and
common use of all living, kitchen, and eating areas within the dwelling unit. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 177,325, Eff. 3/18/06.)	FAMILY DAY CARE HOME – A dwelling
unit that regularly provides care, protection, and supervision for 14 or fewer
children, in the provider’s own home, for periods of less than 24 hours per
day, while the parents or guardians are away, and is either a large family day
care home or a small family day care home.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,085, Eff.
3/19/00.)	FAMILY DAY CARE HOME, LARGE – A family day care home for 9 to 14
children, including children under the age of 10 years who reside at the home,
as set forth in Health and Safety Code Section 1597.465.  (Amended by Ord. No.
176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)	FAMILY DAY CARE HOME, SMALL – A family day care home
for 8 or fewer children, including children under the age of 10 years who reside
at the home, as set forth in Health and Safety Code Section 1597.44.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)	FARMING.  The cultivation of berries,
flowers, fruits, grains, herbs, mushrooms, nuts, ornamental plants, seedlings or
vegetables for use on-site or sale or distribution on-site or off-site.  (Added
by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)	FILL.  The depositing of soil, rock or
other earth materials by artificial means.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)	FLOOR AREA.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)  The area in
square feet confined within the exterior walls of a Building, but not including
the area of the following:  exterior walls, stairways, shafts, rooms housing
Building-operating equipment or machinery, parking areas with associated
driveways and ramps, space for the landing and storage of helicopters, and
Basement storage areas.	Buildings on properties zoned RA, RE, RS, and R1, except
properties in the Coastal Zone which are not designated as Hillside Area, are
subject to the definition of Residential Floor Area.	FLOOR AREA, RESIDENTIAL. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)  The area in square feet confined
within the exterior walls of a Building or Accessory Building on a Lot in an RA,
RE, RS, or R1 Zone.  Any floor or portion of a floor with a ceiling height
greater than 14 feet shall count as twice the square footage of that area.  The
area of stairways and elevator shafts shall only be counted once regardless of
ceiling height.  Area of an attic or portion of an attic with a ceiling height
of more than seven feet shall be included in the Floor Area calculation.	Except
that the following areas shall not be counted:	1.	Required Covered Parking. 
The total area of 200 square feet per required covered parking area.	2.	Detached
Accessory Buildings.  Detached Accessory Buildings not exceeding 200 square
feet; however, the total combined area exempted of all these Accessory Buildings
on a Lot shall not exceed 400 square feet.	3.	Covered Porches, Patios, and
Breezeways.  For Lots not located in the Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, the
first 250 square feet of attached porches, patios, and breezeways with a solid
roof if they are open on at least two sides.	For Lots located in the Hillside
Area, the exempted area shall be limited to 5% of the maximum Residential Floor
Area for a Lot, but need not be less than 250 square feet, and:	a.	Attached
porches or patios with a solid roof may be open on only one side if two of the
other sides are retaining walls.	b.	Breezeways no wider than 5 feet and no
longer than 25 feet connecting a garage at the Street level to a Dwelling,
either directly or through a stairway or elevator, shall not count as
Residential Floor Area and shall not be counted against the aforementioned
exemption.	4.	Lattice Roof Porches, Patios, and Breezeways.  Porches, patios,
and breezeways that have an open Lattice Roof, as defined in this
Section.	5.	Over-In-Height Ceilings.  The first 100 square feet of any Story or
portion of a Story of the main Building on a Lot with a ceiling height greater
than 14 feet shall be counted only once.  Except that in the Hillside Area, for
a room or portion of a room which has a floor height below the exterior Grade
(or “sunken rooms”), when the ceiling height as measured from the exterior
natural or finished Grade, whichever is lower, is not greater than 14 feet it
shall only be counted once.	6.	Basements.  For Lots not located in the Hillside
Area or Coastal Zone, a Basement when the Elevation of the upper surface of the
floor or roof above the Basement does not exceed 2 feet in height at any point
above the finished or natural Grade, whichever is lower.	For Lots located in the
Hillside Area, a Basement when the Elevation of the upper surface of the floor
or roof above the Basement does not exceed 3 feet in height at any point above
the finished or natural Grade, whichever is lower, for at least 60% of the
perimeter length of the exterior Basement walls.	For all Lots, a maximum of 2
light-wells which are not visible from a public right-of-way and do not project
more than 3 feet from the exterior walls of the Basement and no wider than 6
feet shall not disqualify said Basement from this exemption.	FLOOR AREA RATIO
(FAR).  A ratio establishing relationship between a property and the amount of
development permitted for that property, and is expressed as a percentage or a
ratio of the Buildable Area or Lot size (example: “3 times the Buildable
Area” or “3:1&#038;″).  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	FOSTER
CARE HOME.  A dwelling unit in which full-time care is provided for unrelated
children, 16 years of age or under, as part of the family, when such use is
licensed by the State of California or other agency designated by the State as a
full-time foster home. Foster care children may be in addition to those
permitted under the definition of “Family” contained in this section. 
(Added by Ord. No. 145,474, Eff. 3/2/74)	FRONTAGE.  All property fronting on
one (1) side of a street between intersecting or intercepting streets, or
between a street and right-of-way, waterway, end of dead-end street, or city
boundary measured along the street line. An intercepting street shall determine
only the boundary of the frontage on the side of the street which it
intercepts.	GARAGE, PRIVATE.  An accessory building or portion of a main
building designed or used for parking or storage of motor vehicles of the
occupants of a residential use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff.
12/11/72.)	GARAGE, PUBLIC.  A building or portion of a building designed or
used for the repairing, equipping or servicing of motor vehicles, or for the
parking or storage of motor vehicles for remuneration, hire, sale, or
convenience of the occupants of the premises or the general public, but not
including a private garage.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff.
12/11/72.)	GENERAL PLAN.  A General Plan is a comprehensive declaration of
purposes, policies and programs for the development of the city, which includes,
where applicable, diagrams, maps and text setting forth objections, principles,
standards and other features, and which has been adopted by the City Council. 
(Added by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/13/69, Oper. 6/23/69.)	GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND
LEVEL).  Is the lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the
ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the building and the property
line, or when the property line is more than 5 feet from the building, between
the building and a line 5 feet from the building. This definition does not apply
to any building or structure located within the boundaries of the Century City
North or Century City South Specific Plans and which is subject to Section
12.21.2 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 160,657, Eff. 2/17/86, Oper.
6/17/86.)	GRADE, HILLSIDE AREA.  For the purpose of measuring height on an R1,
RS, RE, or RA zoned Lot in the Hillside Area, pursuant to Section 12.21 C.10. of
this Code, Hillside Area Grade shall be defined as the Elevation of the finished
or natural surface of the ground, whichever is lower, or the finished surface of
the ground established in conformance with a grading plan approved pursuant to a
recorded tract or parcel map action.  Retaining walls shall not raise the
effective Elevation of Grade for purposes of measuring Height of a Building or
Structure.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	GRADING.  Any Cut or
Fill, or combination thereof, or recompaction of soil, rock or other earth
materials.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	GRADING, LANDFORM.  A
contour grading method which creates artificial Slopes with curves and varying
Slope ratios in the horizontal plane designed to simulate the appearance of
surrounding natural terrain.  The graded Slopes are non-linear in plan view,
have varying Slope gradients, and significant transition zones between
human-made and natural Slopes resulting in pad configurations that are
irregular.  The concept of Landform Grading incorporates the created ravine and
ridge shapes with protective drainage control systems and integrated landscaping
designs.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	GRADING, REMEDIAL.   For
the purposes of Section 12.21 C.10. of this Code, Remedial Grading shall mean
grading recommended by a California Licensed Geologist and/or Licensed Engineer
prepared in accordance with Sections 91.7006.2, 91.7006.3, and 91.7006.4 of this
Code, and approved by the Department of Building and Safety – Grading
Division, that is necessary to mitigate a geologic or geotechnical hazard on a
site (including for access driveways), including, but not limited to: 1)
correction of hazardous soil and earth conditions, when notified by the
Department of Building and Safety in accordance with Section 91.7005.7 of this
Code, 2) removal and re-compaction of soil for a Building site to remediate
expansive, compressible or seismically unstable soils, 3) grading required to
provide a minimum factor of safety of 1.5 for stability of slopes, and/or 4)
grading to bring existing steep non-conforming graded slopes into conformance
with current Code requirements for fill and excavated slope gradients.  (Added
by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	GREATER DOWNTOWN HOUSING INCENTIVE AREA. 
Those portions of the Central City and Southeast Community Plan Areas generally
bounded by the 101 Freeway on the north, the 110 freeway and Figueroa Street
(south of Adams Blvd) on the west, Alameda and Grand Avenue (south of 21st
Street) on the east, and Washington Boulevard and Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd
(west of Broadway) on the south as shown in the shaded portion of Map A, dated
January 23, 2007, attached to Council File No. 05-1173.  (Added by Ord. No.
179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.)	GREEN WASTES.  All yard trimmings and/or leaves, grass
clippings, agricultural wastes and vegetative landscaping materials generated
from the maintenance of yards, parks or other similar facilities.  (Added by
Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)	GROUND FLOOR.  The story or basement within a
portion of a building that has an access door that is directly accessible to and
fronts on the street, and the elevation of the floor level is within three feet
above or below the adjacent curb.  The point on the adjacent curb is determined
by drawing a line perpendicular to the door between the centerline of such door
and the curb of the street.  No portion of a ground floor can be located
directly above or below another ground floor.  (Added by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff.
1/15/03.)	GUEST HOUSE.  A dwelling containing not more than five guest rooms or
suites of rooms, but with no kitchen facilities.  (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884,
Eff. 9/23/56.)	GUEST ROOM.  Any habitable room except a kitchen, designed or
used for occupancy by one or more persons and not in a dwelling unit.  (Added
by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	HEIGHT OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  Is the
vertical distance above grade measured to the highest point of the roof,
structure, or the parapet wall, whichever is highest. Retaining walls shall not
be used for the purpose of raising the effective elevation of the finished grade
for purposes of measuring the height of a building or structure. This definition
does not apply to any building or structure located within the boundaries of the
Century City North and Century City South Specific Plans and which is subject to
Section 12.21.2 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 160,657, Eff. 2/17/86, Oper.
6/17/86.)	HIGHWAY, MAJOR.  Any street designated as a major highway  on the
Highways and Freeways maps of the Transportation Element of the General Plan. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff. 11/4/99.)	HIGHWAY, SECONDARY.  Any street
designated as a secondary highway on the Highways and Freeways maps of the
Transportation Element of the General Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff.
11/4/99.)	HILLSIDE AREA.  Any land designated as Hillside Area as shown in the
shaded portion of the Department of City Planning Hillside Area Map, dated
September 23, 2009, attached to Council File No. 09-1390.  The map is
maintained by the Department of City Planning as part of the Geographic
Information Systems database.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,128, Eff.
5/3/10.)	HISTORIC VEHICLE COLLECTION.  One or more vehicles, as defined by
Sections 5004(a)(1), (2) and (3) of the California Vehicle Code, special
interest vehicles, as defined by Section 5051(b) of the California Vehicle Code,
out-of-production vehicles of historical importance, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator or parts cars, as defined in Section 5051(c) of the California
Vehicle Code, which are collected, restored, or maintained for non-commercial
hobby or historical purposes.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,931, Eff. 3/2/87.)	HOME
OCCUPATION.  An occupation carried on by the occupant or occupants of a
dwelling as a secondary use in connection with the main use of the property,
subject to the regulations of Section 12.05 A.16. of this Code.  For dwelling
units where a home occupation is conducted, the home occupation shall be
considered a residential use for zoning purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	HOSTEL.  A one-family dwelling, boarding
or rooming house, dormitory, apartment hotel or apartment house which is
advertised as a hostel or which is listed with any recognized national or
international hostel organization.  (Added by Ord. No 167,689, Eff.
5/9/92.)	HOTEL.  A residential building designated or used for or containing
six or more guest rooms, or suites of rooms, which may also contain not more
than one dwelling unit, but not including any institution in which human beings
are housed or detained under legal restraint.  (Amended by Ord. No. 138,685,
Eff. 7/10/69.)	HOUSEHOLD, LOW INCOME.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff.
12/7/08.)	HOUSEHOLD, MODERATE INCOME.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff.
12/7/08.)	HOUSEHOLD MOVING RENTAL TRUCK.  Any motor vehicle which is displayed,
stored or offered for rental without a driver, used and maintained solely for
the transportation of property, primarily used for the do-it-yourself movement
of personal or household goods by private individuals on a short-term basis,
having only two axles, and equipped with a body of no more than 22 feet in
length measured at the vehicle chassis nor more than 12 feet in height measured
from the surface upon which the involved truck rests. Such vehicle may exceed
5600 pounds in registered net weight.  (Amended by Ord. No. 151,717, Eff.
1/13/79.)	HOUSING AUTHORITY.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,308, Eff.
12/7/08.)	HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.  The construction pursuant to a building permit
of, or the proposed conversion to condominium ownership pursuant to a final
subdivision tract map submitted for approval of any apartment house, apartment
hotel, multiple dwelling or group dwelling, residential condominium development
or cooperative apartment home having five or more dwelling units.  (Added by
Ord. No. 145,927, Eff. 6/3/74.)	HOUSING DIRECTOR.  (Deleted by Ord. No.
180,308, Eff. 12/7/08.)	INOPERABLE VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle or trailer which
is incapable of immediate and sustained movement for which it was designed. 
(Added by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)	IN-VESSEL COMPOSTING.  A process in
which compostable material is enclosed in a drum, silo or similar structure
where the environmental conditions are controlled and the compostable material
is aerated and mechanically agitated.  This process allows for accelerated
decomposition.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)	JOINT LIVING AND WORK
QUARTERS.  A residential occupancy of one or more rooms or floors used as a
dwelling unit with adequate work space reserved for, and regularly used by, one
or more persons residing there.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,133, Eff.
5/11/10.)	JUNK YARD.  Any property or place where the business of a junk
dealer, as defined by either Section 21601 of the California Business and
Profession’s Code or Section 103.305 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, is
conducted – other than wholly within an enclosed building. In addition, a junk
yard shall include property used for the storage of impounded, abandoned,
partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked automobiles – other than wholly
within an enclosed building. Junk Yard does not include an Historic Vehicle
Collection when maintained as an Accessory Use as defined by Section 12.03 of
the Municipal Code, or Scrap Metal Processing Yard as defined in the Municipal
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,931, Eff. 3/2/87.)	KENNEL.  Any lot or
premises on which four (4) or more dogs, at least four (4) months of age, are
kept.	A municipality may lawfully regulate the number of dogs that may be kept
and may also prescribe an age limit.
	Miller v. City of Arcadia, (1932) 121 Cal. App. 660.	KITCHEN.  Any room or any
portion of a dwelling unit, whether an enclosing subdivision thereof or
otherwise, used or intended or designed to be used for cooking and preparing
food except a light housekeeping room or that portion of a recreation room in a
multiple residential use, or in an accessory building appurtenant thereto,
containing the facilities for the cooking and preparation of food.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 140,191, Eff. 5/15/70, Operative 10/12/70.)	LEACHATES.  Any liquid
which has come into contact with or percolated through composting or curing
materials and contains extracted or dissolved substances therefrom, or any other
liquid which has been generated by the decomposition process.  (Added by Ord.
No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)	LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING ROOM.  Any guest room which is
designed and used as a bedroom and for the cooking and preparing of food, in a
conformance with the provisions of Section 91.4930.1 of Article 1, Chapter 9 of
this Code. For the purpose of applying the lot area and automobile parking space
requirements of the various zones, each light housekeeping room shall be
considered as a separate guest room.  (Added by Ord. No. 113,548, Eff.
6/10/59.)	LOADING SPACE.  An off street space or berth on the same lot with a
building, or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.	LOT.  A
parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a use, building or unit group of
buildings and accessory buildings and uses, together with the yards, open
spaces, lot width and lot area as are required by this chapter and fronting for
a distance of at least 20 feet upon a street as defined here, or upon a private
street as defined in Article 8 of this chapter.  The width of an access-strip
portion of a lot shall not be less than 20 feet at any point.  In a residential
planned development or an approved small lot subdivision a lot need have only
the street frontage or access as is provided on the recorded subdivision tract
or parcel map for the development.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,354, Eff.
1/31/05.)	LOT –  AIR SPACE.  (Added by Ord. No. 156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.)  A
division of the space above or below a lot as defined in this section with a
finite width, length, and upper and lower elevation occupied or to be occupied
by a use, building or portion thereof, unit group of buildings or portions
thereof, and accessory buildings or portions thereof or accessory uses. An air
space lot shall be identified on a final map or a parcel map recorded in the
office of the County Recorder with a separate and distinct number or letter.	An
air space lot shall have such access to a street (as defined in this section) or
private street (as defined in Article 8 of this chapter) by means of one or more
easements or other entitlements to use in a form satisfactory to the Advisory
Agency and the City Engineer.	LOT, CORNER.  A lot situated at the intersection
of two (2) or more streets having an angle of intersection of not more than one
hundred thirty five (135) degrees.	LOT, DOWNHILL.  A Lot for which the Front
Lot Line, or Street which serves as the primary vehicular access point for the
required parking, is at a higher Elevation than the Rear Lot Line.  (Added by
Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	LOT, FLAG.  A lot so shaped and designed that
the main building site area is set back from the street on which it fronts and
includes an access strip not less than 20 feet in width at any point connecting
the main building site area to the frontage street. (Added by Ord. No. 137,956,
Eff. 3/2/69.)	LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot.	LOT, KEY.  The
first interior lot to the rear of a reversed corner lot and not separated
therefrom by an alley.	LOT, REVERSED CORNER.  A corner lot the side street line
of which is substantially a continuation of the front line of the first lot to
its rear.	LOT, THROUGH.  A lot having a frontage or two parallel or
approximately parallel streets, but not including those lots having frontage on
a street and frontage on a navigable public canal or waterway parallel or
approximately parallel to said street.  (Amended by Ord. No. 138,095, Eff.
4/19/69.)	LOT, TRANSITIONAL.  The first 100 feet of a lot in an RA or R Zone
having a side line adjoining or separated only by an alley from a lot in a C or
M Zone.  (Amended by Ord. No. 111,049, Eff. 5/3/58.)	LOT, UPHILL.  A Lot for
which the Front Lot Line, or Street which serves as the primary vehicular access
point for the required parking, is at a lower Elevation than the Rear Lot
Line.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	LOT, VACANT.  A lot on which
no building, temporary or permanent, is erected.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,361,
Eff. 3/2/80.)	LOT AREA.  The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a
lot.	LOT DEPTH.  The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.	LOT LINE, FRONT.  In the
case of an interior lot, the line separating the lot from the street or place,
and in the case of a corner lot, a line separating the narrowest street frontage
of the lot from the street, except in those cases where the latest tract deed
restrictions specify another line as the front lot line.	LOT LINE, REAR.  A lot
line which is opposite and most distant from the front lot line and, in the case
of an irregular, triangular, or gore-shaped lot, a line ten (10) feet in length
within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front line.	LOT
LINE, SIDE.  Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.	LOT
WIDTH.  The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot
lines.	LOW TO MODERATE COST HOUSING.  Housing for which the rent does not
exceed the current Fair Market Rent for Existing Housing standards applicable to
Los Angeles City as established for Section 8 and 23 Housing Assistance Payments
Program by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
(Added by Ord. No. 151,432, Eff. 10/12/78.)	MAJOR REMODEL – HILLSIDE.  Any
remodeling of a main building on a lot in the Hillside Area whenever the
aggregate value of all alterations within a one-year period exceeds 50 percent
of the replacement cost of the main building.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,159, Eff.
9/14/92.)	MANUFACTURED HOME.  The term “manufactured home” shall include a
factory-built home and mobilehome but shall not include a recreational vehicle,
or commercial coach.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)	MINI-SHOPPING
CENTER.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,223, Eff. 6/30/03.)  A building or group of
buildings located on a lot or lots, having all of the following
characteristics:	(1)	Size – comprised of less than 65,000 square feet of lot
area before any dedications required in connection with the building permit or
other permits for the Mini-Shopping Center; 	(2)	Use – used for more than one
retail establishment, such as a store, shop, business, service or
facility; 	(3)	Zoning – located in the C or M1, M2 or M3 Zones;
and 	(4)	Improvements – improved with a structure or structures that do not
exceed a height of three stories. 	For purposes of this definition, a
Mini-Shopping Center can be located on more than one lot only if the lots are
adjacent, not divided by a public street, have a common parking area, and one or
more buildings are erected or are proposed to be erected upon the lots. 	The
definition of Mini-Shopping Center shall not include the following:	An
automobile service station, including service bay areas, where accessory food
sales do not exceed 600 square feet of floor area and other accessory uses do
not exceed 500 square feet of floor area; or	Commercial buildings composed of
general business or professional offices, including those of a real estate or
stock broker, or an insurance or building and loan company, with 30% or less of
the total square footage containing related commercial/retail uses that are
located on the first and second floors, so long as parking is provided for the
commercial/retail uses as required by Section 12.21 A.4.	MINOR EMERGENCY
REPAIRS.  Those repairs to a currently State licensed motor vehicle owned by
the occupants of the property which do not require the complete immobilization
of the vehicle in excess of 24 hours duration or does not require the removal of
the engine transmission, rear-end or more than one wheel. Minor emergency
repairs does not include body and fender work.  (Added by Ord. No. 137,210,
Eff. 10/12/68.)	MOBILE MEDICAL FACILITY.  A vehicle, or portable structure
transported by a vehicle, easily transportable in one or more sections, which is
used to provide primarily diagnostic or preventive medical services on a
temporary basis in any one location.  (Added by Ord. No. 166,045, Eff.
8/17/90.)	MOBILEHOME.  When used in Sections 12.08.1, 12.09.3, and 12.24 of
this Code, this term shall mean a structure transportable in one or more
sections, designed and equipped to be used as a dwelling unit or accessory to a
dwelling unit. This structure shall comply with all applicable provisions of the
California State Mobilehomes – Manufactured Housing Act. The term
“mobilehome” shall not include a factory–built home, recreational vehicle,
or commercial coach. (Amended by Ord. No. 164,904, Eff. 7/6/89.)	MOBILEHOME
PARK.  When used in Sections 12.09.3, 12.24, and 17.50 of this Code, this term
shall mean any lot or portion of a lot used to provide rental or lease sites for
two or more individual mobilehomes or trailers used as one–family dwellings.
(Amended by Ord. No. 164,904, Eff. 7/6/89.)	MOBILEHOME SITE.  When used in
Section 12.24 of this Code, this term shall mean that portion of a mobilehome
park set aside and designated for the occupancy of a mobilehome or trailer and
including the area set aside or used for parking and buildings or structures
such as awnings, cabanas or ramadas which are accessory to the mobilehome or
trailer.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)	MODEL DWELLING.  (Deleted
by Ord. No. 172,839, Eff. 11/1/99.)	MULCH.  A woody vegetative material used as
a nonnutritive ground cover to control erosion, improve water retention and
retard weed growth.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)	MULCHING
FACILITY.  Any facility which receives, temporarily stores and processes
primarily source-separated carbonaceous wood waste and/or yard trimmings into a
mulch.  Examples of such materials include clean wood waste, tree and shrub
trimming, leaves and other high carbon, low nitrogen material which decompose at
a slow rate and have little leachate or odor-causing potential.  Processing of
such materials is achieved by chipping and screening to attain a uniform
particle size and may include limited aging of the material to achieve a desired
appearance.  This definition shall not include any mulching of green waste
and/or wood waste conducted for noncommercial, nonprofit purpose.  (Added by
Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)	NATURE PRESERVE.  An area in its natural state
which serves as a habitat for flora and/or fauna indigenous to the area, or as a
corridor linking such habitats, including but not limited to a bird sanctuary,
and which is designated as a nature preserve on the applicable community or
district plan by footnote or other means, and where permitted uses are only
incidental to the preservation and enhancement of the preserve.  (Added by Ord.
No. 166,168, Eff. 10/3/90.)	NONCONFORMING BUILDING.  A building, structure or
portion thereof, which does not conform to the regulations of this chapter and
which lawfully existed at the time the regulations, with which it does not
conform, became effective.	NONCONFORMING LOT.  A lot whose width, area or other
dimensions does not conform to the regulations of this chapter and which
lawfully existed at the time the regulations with which it does not conform
became effective. (Amended by Ord. No. 127,777, Eff. 8/1/64.)	NONCONFORMING
USE.  A use of building or land which does not conform to the regulations of
this chapter and which lawfully existed at the time the regulations with which
it does not conform became effective.	OUTDOOR EATING AREA.  When used in
Sections 12.12.2, 12.13, 12.14, 12.21.1 and 12.24, this term shall refer to a
covered or uncovered portion of a ground floor restaurant which is not
completely enclosed within the building; is used primarily for the consumption
of food and/or drinks by the patrons of the restaurant; and is not larger than
50 percent of the dining area of the ground floor restaurant. A “ground
floor” restaurant refers to any restaurant with an average finished floor
elevation either below or not more than three feet above natural grade as
measured from any point along the exterior building wall closest to the
restaurant.   (Amended by Ord. No. 165,403, Eff. 2/17/90.)	PARALLEL PARKING
STALL.  A parking stall having its length parallel with its access aisle. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 142,306, Oper. 2/9/72.)	PARKING AREA, PRIVATE.  An open
area located on the same lot with a dwelling, apartment house, hotel or
apartment hotel, for the parking of automobiles of the occupants of such
building.  (Amended by Ord. No. 138,859, Eff. 8/21/69.)	PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. 
Any open area other than a street or a private parking area, used for the
parking of more than four automobiles.	PARKING BAY.  The width of two rows of
parking stalls and the aisle between, or on a single loaded aisle with width of
one row of parking stalls and the access aisle.  (Added by Ord. No. 142,306,
Oper. 2/9/72.)	PARKING. BUILDING.  Any garage designed and used primarily for
the parking of automobiles. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff.
12/11/72.)	PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE.  Space within a building or a private or
public parking area, exclusive of driveways, ramps, columns, office and work
areas, for the parking of one (1) automobile.	PARKING STALL.  Same as Parking
Space, Automobile.  (Added by Ord. No. 142,306, Oper. 2/9/72.)	PHILANTHROPIC
INSTITUTION.  A nonprofit, charitable institution devoted to the housing,
training or care of children, or of aged, indigent, handicapped or
underprivileged persons, but not including the following: office buildings,
except as an accessory to and located on the same lot with an institutional
activity, as listed above; hospitals, clinics or sanitariums, correctional
institutions, institutions or homes for the insane or those of unsound mind;
lodging houses or dormitories providing temporary quarters for transient
unemployed persons; organizations devoted to collecting and salvaging new or
used materials, or organizations devoted principally to distributing food,
clothing or supplies on a charitable basis.	POOL.  Any constructed pool used
for swimming, bathing or wading or as a fishpond or similar use.  (Added by
Ord. No. 109,714, Eff. 8/26/57.)	PRINCIPAL USE.  The main permitted use of land
or structures as  distinguished from an accessory use.  (Added by Ord. No.
152,467, Eff. 7/14/79.)	RECREATION ROOM.  A room contained in either a main
building or an accessory building, designed to be utilized primarily for games,
the pursuit of hobbies, social gatherings, and such activities. Such a room may
contain such plumbing fixtures as are utilized in a bar or for hobby activities.
Such a room in a single-family or two-family dwelling or in an accessory
building appurtenant to a single-family or two-family dwelling, may not include
facilities for the cooking and preparation of food. However, in a multiple
residential use or in an accessory building appurtenant thereto, a recreation
room which is for the common use of all the dwelling units therein may contain
the facilities for the cooking and preparing of food.  (Added by Ord. No.
138,685. Eff. 7/10/69.)	RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A portable vehicle mounted on
wheels, with or without motive power, and primarily designed and constructed to
provide human habitation for recreational, camping, travel or emergency
purposes.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)	RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
PARK.  Any lot or portion of a lot permitted by conditional use to provide
rental or lease sites for individual recreational vehicles which are occupied
for temporary purposes.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/ 6/86.)	RECYCLABLE
MATERIALS.  Items or materials to be recycled or reused, including but not
limited to yard waste, paper, plastic, glass, metal, newspaper, and cardboard. 
(Added by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	RECYCLING AREA OR ROOM.  An outdoor
space or a room within a building which is designated for the collection of
Recyclable Materials generated by the use(s) occupying only that site, is
approved by the Fire Department and the Department of Building and Safety, and
has the space to accommodate Recycling Receptacles.  (Added by Ord. No.
171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	RECYCLING CENTER, MOBILE.  A receptacle, usually a
trailer, for the collection of recyclable materials that is drawn by motor power
and bears a valid state license.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,503, Eff.
1/1/84.)	RECYCLING CENTER OPERATOR OR JUNK DEALER.  A person having a fixed
place of business in the City and engaging in, conducting, managing or carrying
on the business of buying, selling or otherwise charging or re-selling for
reuse, materials approved for collection at an approved Recycling Center or
Buyback Center, Recycling Materials Processing Facility, Recycling Materials
Sorting Facility or Junk Yard as defined by this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	RECYCLING CENTER OR SITE.  (Definition Deleted by Ord.
No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	RECYCLING CHUTE.  Any vertical smooth shaft used to
convey recyclable materials from the upper floors of a building to a recyclable
storage bin or room at the bottom end of the chute.  (Added by Ord. No.
181,227. Eff. 9/1/10.)	RECYCLING COLLECTION OR BUYBACK CENTER.  A facility
where Recyclable Materials are deposited or redeemed for monetary value, and
which may include baling or crushing operations for the purposes of efficiency
of storage and transfer (volume reduction), but shall not include sorting or
processing activities for other than temporary storage purposes.  (Added by
Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	RECYCLING MATERIALS PROCESSING FACILITY.  A
facility which accepts Recyclable Materials for sorting and processing on the
site.  For the purpose of this definition, processing shall mean the process of
changing the physical characteristics of a Recyclable Material, including the
shredding, smelting, grinding and crushing of cans, bottles, and other
materials, for other than temporary storage purposes.  (Added by Ord. No.
171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	RECYCLING MATERIALS SORTING FACILITY.  A facility which
accepts commingled or source-separated Recyclable Materials of various types,
which are separated on the site using a manual or automated system.  For the
purpose of this definition, source-separated Recyclable Materials are those
which are separated from the waste stream at their point of generation for the
purpose of recycling.  This may include baling or crushing operations for the
purposes of efficiency of storage and transfer (volume reduction), but shall not
include processing activities for other than temporary storage purposes. 
(Added by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	RECYCLING RECEPTACLE.  A container
which is suitable for the collection of Recyclable Materials.  Containers shall
be covered, durable, waterproof, rustproof, and of incombustible construction,
and shall provide protection against the environment or be in completely
enclosed indoor recycling areas.  Containers must be clearly labeled to
indicate the type of material to be deposited.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,687,
Eff. 8/19/97.)	REGISTERED NET WEIGHT.  Registered net weight or a commercial
vehicle is the unladen weight, as that term is defined by State Vehicle Code
Section 660 and evidenced on the registration card kept within a commercial
vehicle pursuant to State Vehicle Code Section 4454 or 4455 as the registration
weight of a commercial vehicle pursuant to State Vehicle Code Section 9400. 
(Added by Ord. No. 148,857, Eff. 10/30/76.)	RENTABLE FLOOR AREA.  The floor
area in a building, exclusive of corridors, stairs, elevator shafts,
lavoratories, flues and janitor’s storage closets.	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING.  A
building or portion thereof designed or used for human habitation.  (Added by
Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	RESIDENTIAL PLANNING DEVELOPMENT.  A group of
residential  buildings and appurtenant structures located and arranged in
accordance with the requirement of the RPD – residential planned development
district (Sec. 13.04) in which the property is located. A residential planned
development may include schools. It may also  include churches, hospitals,
infirmaries, recreational and commercial uses, as an integral part of the
development and intended for use by its occupants, to an extent commensurate
with the planned population of the RPD district.  (Added by Ord. No. 141,474,
Eff. 2/27/71.)	RESIDENTIAL VEHICLE.  A mobilehome, or a travel trailer
containing a minimum of two hundred and twenty (220) square feet of superficial
floor area exclusive of bath, closet and water closet areas, as defined by the
California Health and Safety Code Sections 18211 and 18219. Such residential
vehicle shall contain cooking, eating, sleeping, toilet and bathing facilities
and shall display a California Department of Housing and Community Development
insignia issued within one year prior to the date of application for the use of
land permit herein required and a valid current California vehicle license. 
(Added by Ord. No. 153,144, Eff. 12/28/79.)	RETIREMENT HOTEL.  A building with
guest rooms and/or dwelling units in which 90 percent or more of the occupants
are age 62 or older and for which a covenant running with the land is recorded
limiting the use as such for as long as the building contains any guest rooms. 
(Added by Ord. No. 159,714, Eff. 4/8/85.)	REVERSE VENDING MACHINE.  An
automated mechanical device which accepts one or more types of empty beverage
containers including aluminum cans, glass and plastic bottles, and which issues
a cash refund or a redeemable credit slip with a value not less than the
container’s redemption value as determined by the State of California.  A
reverse vending machine may sort and process containers mechanically, provided
that the entire process is enclosed within the machine.  (Added by Ord. No.
168,662, Eff. 4/29/93.)	REVERSE VENDING MACHINE COMMODITY STORAGE BIN.  A 
non-automated container which is covered and made of durable, incombustible,
rustproof and waterproof construction, which is used to store the processed
aluminum cans, glass and plastic bottles that are removed from a reverse vending
machine.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,662, Eff. 4/29/93.)	ROOF, LATTICE.  A roof
covering constructed as an Open Egg-Crate Roof or Spaced Roof.  An Open
Egg-Crate roof is constructed of lattice members so that a sphere of 10 inches
minimum in diameter can pass through.  All lattice members must have a minimum
nominal width of 2 inches.  A Spaced Roof is constructed of members running in
one direction only with a minimum clear spacing between the members of not less
than 4 inches.  In addition, beams supporting and placed perpendicular to the
members shall be spaced not less than 24 inches on center.  All members or
beams must have a minimum nominal width of 2 inches.  (Added by Ord. No.
181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	ROOM, HABITABLE.  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,421, Eff.
9/14/74.)  An enclosed subdivision in a residential building commonly used for
living purposes, but not including any lobby, hall, closet, storage space, water
closet, bath, toilet, slop sink, general utility room or service porch. A recess
from a room or an alcove (other than a dining area) having 50 square feet or
more of floor area and so located that it could be partitioned off to form a
habitable room, shall be considered a habitable room.	For the purpose of
applying the automobile parking space requirements of this article, any kitchen
as defined herein shall be considered a habitable room and, if it is a part of a
room designed for other than food preparation or eating purposes, such remaining
portion shall also be considered a habitable room.	For the purpose of applying
the lot area requirements of this article, a kitchen less than 100 square feet
of room area from wall to wall shall not be considered a habitable room.	For the
purpose of applying the open space requirements of Section 12.21 G., a kitchen
as defined herein shall not be considered a habitable room.  (Fourth Para.
Added by Ord. No. 171,753, Eff. 11/17/97.)	SCHOOLS, ELEMENTARY AND HIGH.  An
institution of learning which offers instruction in several branches of learning
and study required to be taught in the public schools by the Education Code of
the State of California. High schools include Junior and Senior.	SCRAP METAL
PROCESSING YARD.  Any establishment or place of business which is maintained,
used or operated solely for the processing and preparing of scrap metal for
remelting by steel mills and foundries.  (Added by Ord. No. 145,040, Eff.
10/15/73.)	SENIOR INDEPENDENT HOUSING.  Residential housing that consists of
dwelling units for persons 62 years of age and older and may include common
dining areas or other community rooms.  Full time medical services shall not be
provided on the premises.  It may be a component of an Eldercare Facility. 
(Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)	SERVANTS QUARTERS.  An accessory
building located on the same premises with the main building, used solely as the
dwelling of persons employed on the premises, such quarters having no kitchen
facilities and not rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling unit. 
(Added by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS.  A
residential facility operated by a “provider,” other than a “community
care facility” as defined in the California Health and Safety Code Section
1502, which provides temporary accommodations to homeless persons and/or
families and which meets the standards for shelters contained in Title 25,
California Administrative Code, Part 1, Chapter F, Subchapter 12, Section 7972.
The term “temporary accommodations” means that a homeless person or family
will be allowed to reside at the shelter for a time period not to exceed six
months. For the purpose of this definition, a “provider” shall mean a
government agency or private non-profit organization which provides, or
contracts with recognized community organizations to provide, emergency or
temporary shelter for the homeless, and which has been certified by the
Community Development Department of the City of Los Angeles to meet all
applicable requirements as such which are contained in the California Health and
Safety Code and the California Administrative Code.  (Added by Ord. No.
161,426, Eff. 8/2/86.)	SHOWCASE THEATER.  (Added by Ord. No. 148,910, Eff.
11/17/76.)  A theater which meets all of the following criteria:	(1)	seats 90
persons or less;	(2)	is nonprofit and tax-exempt;	(3)	provides live
entertainment; and	(4)	employs fewer than five persons (exclusive of
performers).	SKILLED NURSING CARE HOUSING.  Residential housing that is
licensed by the California Department of Health and provides acute,
intermediate, or long-term skilled nursing care and consists only of guest rooms
for its residents.  Full time medical services may be provided on the
premises.  It may be a component of an Eldercare Facility.  (Added by Ord. No.
178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)	SLOPE.  An inclined ground surface the inclination of
which is expressed as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance (i.e.
2:1 or 1:1) or as a percentage (i.e. 50% or 100%).  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624,
Eff. 5/9/11.)	SLOPE BAND.  The area of a property contained within a defined
Slope interval as identified in Section 12.21 C.10. of this Code and shown on a
Slope Analysis Map prepared by a licensed surveyor based on a survey of the
natural/existing topography.  Slope bands need not necessarily be located in a
contiguous manner and can be one or more areas as small or as large as they
exist on said property.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	SOLID WASTE
ALTERNATIVE TECHNOLOGY PROCESSING FACILITY.  A facility that has one or more
technological systems which extracts, recovers or generates usable materials
and/or energy from solid waste, as defined in Section 40191 of California Public
Resources Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,272, Eff. 9/28/10.)	SPECIFIC PLAN.  A
specific plan is a definite statement adopted by ordinance of policies,
standards and regulations, together with a map or description defining the
locations where such policies, standards and regulations are applicable. 
(Added by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/13/69.)	STABLE, PRIVATE.  A detached
accessory building which has a roof and may have one or more sides and is used
in whole or in part for the housing or shelter of an equine or equines owned by
the occupants of the premises and not kept for remuneration, hire or sale. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff. 11/22/82; Clarified by Ord. No. 157,219, Eff.
12/3/82.)	STABLE, PUBLIC.  A stable other than a private stable.	STANDARD
HILLSIDE LIMITED STREET — a street (public or private) with a minimum width of
36 feet and paved to a minimum roadway width of 28 feet, as determined by the
Bureau of Engineering.  (Amended by Ord No. 169,961, Eff. 8/29/94.)	STOCK
COOPERATIVE.  The same as defined by Section 11003.2 of the California Business
and Professions Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,024, Eff. 1/10/79.)	STORAGE
BUILDING FOR HOUSEHOLD GOODS.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,979, Eff. 6/29/01.)  A
building that offers secure self-storage for household goods in individual
rooms, compartments, lockers or containers to which clients bring goods for
storage and retrieve them any time during normal business hours without any
assistance from the operator of the building.  For purposes of this definition,
storage of these goods may not be in containers, such as boxes, barrels and/or
drums set on pallets or racks, or that require the use of forklifts or other
similar mechanical equipment for access or mobility.  A storage building for
household goods does not include the storage of commercial inventory to be sold,
displayed, rented or otherwise relocated for sale.	STORY.  That portion of a
building included between the upper surface of any floor and the upper surface
of the floor next above, except that the top most story shall be that portion of
a building included between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the
ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level directly above a basement,
cellar or unused underfloor space is more than six feet above grade as defined
herein for more than 50% of the total perimeter, or is more than twelve feet
above grade as defined herein at any point, such basement, cellar or unused
underfloor space shall be considered as a story.  (Amended by Ord. No. 131,309,
Eff. 4/24/66.)	STREET.  Any public thoroughfare other than an alley or walk,
except that in those cases where a subdivision has been recorded containing lots
which abut only on an alley or walk, said alley or walk may be considered to be
a street.	STREET – COLLECTOR.  Any street designated as a collector street on
an adopted community plan element of the general plan. (Added by Ord. No.
150,799, Eff. 6/5/78.)	STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS.  Any change which would prolong
the life of the supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing
walls, columns, beams or girders.	STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected
which is supported directly or indirectly on the earth, but not including any
vehicle which conforms to the California State Vehicle Act. (Amended by Ord. No.
107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	SUBSTANDARD HILLSIDE LIMITED STREET.  A Street which
does not meet the minimum requirements of a Standard Hillside Limited Street as
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code (public or private) with a width less than
36 feet and paved to a roadway width of less than 28 feet, as determined by the
Bureau of Engineering.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	SUITE.  A
group of habitable rooms designed as a unit, and occupied by only one family,
but not including a kitchen or other facilities for the preparation of food,
with entrances and exits which are common to all rooms comprising the suite. 
(Added by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)	TEMPORARY GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATORY CORE
HOLE.  A seismic test hole or exploratory core hole used or intended to be used
exclusively for geophysical, geological, and other exploratory testing for oil,
natural gas or other hydrocarbon substances.  (Amended by Ord. No. 152,744,
Eff. 9/10/79.)	TENANT.  A person who rents, leases or sub-leases, through
either a written or oral agreement, residential real property from another. 
(Added by Ord. No. 151,432, Eff. 10/12/78.)	TENNIS OR PADDLE TENNIS COURT.  A
game court designed for the purpose of playing tennis, paddle tennis or similar
game, utilizing a concrete slab or other conventionally accepted hard playing
surface, an enclosing fence and frequently overhead lighting fixtures.  (Added
by Ord. No. 151,466, Eff. 10/27/78.)	TOWNHOUSE.  A dwelling unit, structurally
separated from another dwelling unit or other dwelling units in a building
containing two or more dwelling units, and complying with the provisions of
Section 91.2305(k)(2) of this Code, and which may be sold jointly with the lot
upon which the dwelling unit is situated. Provided, however, that common
roofing, flashing, and siding are permitted so as to enclose the airspace
resulting from said structural separation.  (Added by Ord. No. 141,474, Eff.
2/27/71.)	TRAILER OR AUTOMOBILE TRAILER.  A vehicle without motive power,
designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle and to be used for human habitation or
for carrying persons and property, the terms “trailer” and “automobile
trailer” shall not include a mobilehome.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff.
12/6/86.)	TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE.  A residential building
designed or used for one or more dwelling units or a combination of three or
more dwelling units and not more than five guest rooms or suites of rooms
wherein occupancy, by any person by reason of concession, permit, right of
access, license, or other agreement is for a period of 30 consecutive calendar
days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days.  (Added by Ord.
No 167,689, Eff. 5/9/92.)	TRASH CHUTE.  Any vertical smooth shaft used to
convey rubbish, trash, or garbage from the upper floors of a building to a trash
storage bin or room at the bottom end of the chute.  (Added by Ord. No.
181,227, Eff. 9/1/10.)	TRUCK GARDENING.  The cultivation of berries, flowers,
fruits, grains herbs, mushrooms, nuts, ornamental plants, seedlings or
vegetables for use on-site or sale or distribution off-site.  (Added by Ord.
No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)	UNDERFLOOR SPACE.  A space between the ground and
the floor directly above.  (Added by Ord. No. 109,714, Eff. 8/26/57.)	USE. 
The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended or
for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or maintained.	UTILITY
RENTAL TRAILER.  Any non-passenger carrying, box- type open or van designed to
be towed by a passenger vehicle, not exceeding 3,500 pounds gross vehicle weight
(GVW), and not exceeding 96 inches in total width, nor 72 inches in box width,
nor 14 feet in box length.  (Added by Ord. No. 148,857, Eff.
10/30/76.)	VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL.  Any vehicle, excluding Household Moving Rental
Trucks, and Utility Rental Trailers, which when operated upon a highway is
required to be registered as a commercial vehicle by the Vehicle Code of the
State of California or by any other jurisdiction and which is used or maintained
for the transportation of persons for hire, compensation, or profit, or
designed, used or maintained primarily for the transportation of property. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 148,857, Eff. 10/30/76.)	WINDROW COMPOSTING.  The process
in which compostable material is placed in elongated piles or windrows which are
mechanically turned or aerated to encourage decomposition and to reduce odors. 
(Added by Ord. No. 170,054, 11/13/94.)	WOOD WASTES.  Any untreated and/or
unpainted wood material such as pallets, plywood and other construction related
scrap lumber, stumps and tree trimming.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,054,
11/13/94.)	YARD.  An open space other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
article.	YARD, FRONT.  A yard extending across the full width of a lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and
a line parallel thereto on the lot.	YARD, REAR.  A yard extending across the
full width of the lot, the depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance
between the rear lot line and a line parallel thereto on the lot.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)	YARD, SIDE.  A yard more than six (6) inches in
width between a main building and the side lot line, extending from the front
yard or the front lot line where no front yard is required, to the rear yard.
The width of the required side yard shall be measured horizontally from the
nearest point of the side lot line toward the nearest part of the main
building.	ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)
The Zoning Administrator shall mean the Chief Zoning Administrator or an
Associate Zoning Administrator.  The Director may appoint the Zoning
Administrator to act as the Director’s designee or as a Hearing Officer for
the Director.
