                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“C1.5” LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONE (§ 12.13.5)

  “C1.5” LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONE
	(Added by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Oper. 9/1/73.)	The following
regulations shall apply to the C1.5 Limited Commercial Zone:	A.	Use – No
building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall be
erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the following
uses, and when a “Supplemental Use District” is created by the provisions of
Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted therein.	1.	Any use
permitted in the C1 Limited Commercial Zone, provided that all regulations and
limitations of said C1 zone are complied with except as provided in this
section. Any single-family dwelling, two-family dwelling or apartment house use
permitted in the R4 Multiple Dwelling Zone provided that all regulations of said
R4 zone are complied with except as provided in this section.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 156,994, Eff. 9/25/82.)	2.	The following stores, shops, services or
facilities when conducted in accordance with the limitations hereafter
specified:	(a)	Types of Uses:	(1)	Addressograph service.	(2)	Air conditioning
equipment service.	(3)	Appliance repair, household.	(4)	Aquarium.	(5)	Auditorium
having a seating capacity for not more than 3,000 people.	(6)	(None)	(7)	Baths,
Turkish and the like.	(8)	Blueprinting and photostating.	(9)	Bootblack
stand.	(10)	Broadcasting studio, without transmitting towers.	(11)	Building
materials, retail.	(12)	Burglar alarm business.	(13)	Collection agency
office.	(14)	Department store.	(15)	Employment agency or bureau.	(16)	Exhibits,
commercial or cultural.	(17)	Export import business, with not more than 3,000
square feet of storage area.	(18)	Frozen food store.	(19)	Interior decorating
store.	(20)	Locksmith shop.	(21)	Mimeographing service.	(22)	Museum (for
profit).	(23)	Newsstand.	(24)	Physical culture institution, reducing
salon.	(25)	Rubber or metal stamp store.	(26)	Sound score
production.	(27)	Studio, except drama, dancing, music, and motion
picture.	(28)	Swimming pool, commercial.	(29)	Telephone exchange.	(30)	Theater,
and showcase theater.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,910, Eff.
11/17/76.)	(31)	Trading stamp business.	(32)	Typewriter or adding machine
repair.	(b)	Limitations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,924, Eff. 8/23/82.)	(1)	All
merchandise shall be sold at retail only;	(2)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  All merchandise sold shall be new, except merchandise which is sold
incidental to the operation of a permitted repair shop; or unless the sale of
used merchandise is authorized in an indoor swap meet pursuant to the provisions
of Section 12.24W42.	(3)	All activities, including storage, shall be conducted
wholly within an enclosed building;	(4)	All products produced, whether primary
or incidental, shall be sold on the premises, and not more than five persons may
be engaged in such production or in servicing of materials at the same
time.	3.	Golf course or club; not including miniature or pitch and putt courses,
golf driving tees or ranges, and similar commercial golf uses.
	4.	Park, playground or recreational or community center, privately operated. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 145,250, Eff. 12/24/73.)	5.	Parking buildings and all
buildings containing automobile parking as primary or accessory uses. For the
purposes of this section, all references to the “PB” Zone in Section
12.12.1.5 shall be deemed to mean the “C1.5” Zone and the requirements and
restrictions applicable to the erection, alteration and maintenance of parking
buildings and all buildings containing automobile parking as primary or
accessory uses therein shall apply in the “C1.5” Zone.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 160,273, Eff. 9/16/85.)	6.	Signs as permitted in the C1 Zone – Section
12.13A2(b4).	7.	Other uses similar to the above, as provided for in Section
12.21A2.	8.	Uses (not involving open storage) customarily incident to any of the
above uses, and accessory buildings, when located on the same lot.	9.	Automobile
parking space as required in Section 12.21A4, or as provided in connection with
all uses permitted in this zone.	10.	The conducting of any game of bingo
pursuant to the provisions of Article 4.5 of Chapter IV of this Code.  (Added
by Ord. No. 153,620, Eff. 5/18/80.)	11.	Hotels (including motels), apartment
hotels, transient occupancy residential structures or hostels when no portion of
a structure proposed to be used as a hotel (including a motel), apartment hotel,
transient occupancy residential structures, or hostels is located within 500
feet from any A or R zone.  (Amended by Ord. No 167,689, Eff.
5/9/92.)	12.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	13.	(Deleted by Ord.
No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	B.	Area – No building or structure nor the
enlargement of any building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless
the following yards, lot areas and loading spaces are provided and maintained in
connection with such building, structure or enlargement.	1.	Front Yard.  There
shall be a front yard of not less than 10 feet in depth.	2.	Side and Rear
Yards.  Same as required in the C1 Zone. (Section 12.13-C,2 and 3)	3.	Lot
Area.  The lot areas requirements of the R4 Zone (Section 12.11-C,4) shall
apply to all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes.	4.	Loading Space.  As required by Section 12.21-C,6. Exceptions to
area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22-C.	C.	Restriction.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as
Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, other Public, or Open Space on
the land use map of the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on
the map as having existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or
similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway
right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan
amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of the uses
permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall require prior approval in
accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this Code.
