                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“C4”COMMERCIAL ZONE. (§ 12.16)

  “C4”  COMMERCIAL ZONE.	The following regulations shall apply in the
“C4” Commercial Zone:	A.	Use – No building, structure or land shall be
used and no building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered,
enlarged, or maintained except for the following uses, and when a
“Supplemental Use District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of
this Chapter, for such uses as may be permitted therein:	1.	(None).	2.	(Amended
by Ord. No. 158,741, Eff. 3/29/84.) Any use permitted in the C2 Zone, provided
that all regulations and limitations of said C2 Commercial Zone are complied
with, except:	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.) The following
amusement enterprises:	(1)	boxing arena;	(2)	games of skill and
science;	(3)	merry-go-round, ferris wheel or carousel;	(4)	penny
arcade;	(5)	shooting gallery;	(6)	skating rink;	(7)	Strip tease show.  This use
shall include an adult cabaret, as defined in Section 12.70 B. of this
Code;	(8)	billiard or pool hall;	(9)	bowling alley;	(10)	indoor swap meets,
unless authorized pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24 W.42.;
and	(11)	other similar uses, but not including the conducting of any game of
bingo authorized pursuant to the provisions of Article 4.5 of Chapter IV of this
Code.	(b)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)	(c)	Baseball or football
stadium.	(d)	Carpenter shop.	(e)	Circus or amusement enterprises of a similar
type, transient in character.	(f)	Feed and fuel store.	(g)	Hospital or
sanitarium.	(h)	Ice storage house.	(i)	(Deleted by Ord. No. 171,756, Eff.
11/21/97.)	(j)	Pawnshop.	(k)	(Deleted by Ord. No. 171,756, Eff.
11/21/97.)	(l)	Plumbing or sheet metal shop.	(m)	Pony riding ring.	(n)	Public
services, including electric distributing substation	(o)	Second hand
store.	(p)	Gymnasiums, health clubs and other similar uses.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	(q)	Public auctions, except those ordered by a
Court of competent  jurisdiction.	This ordinance is constitutional.
	People v. Feigenbaum, CR A 2704; 2791.	(r)	Other uses similar to those hereby
excepted, as determined by the Administrator.	(s)	(None)	(t)	(Repealed by Ord.
No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)	(u)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff.
3/24/07.)	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public
Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community
or district plan; any lot shown on those maps as having existing lakes,
waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on
those maps as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed
to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the
annexation proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this
section shall require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of
Section 12.24.1 of this Code.	C.	Area. (Amended by Ord. No. 148,783, Eff.
10/13/76.) – No building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or
structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following yards,
lot areas and loading spaces are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement.	1.	Front Yard. Not required.	2.	Side and
Rear Yards. Not required for buildings erected and used exclusively for
commercial purposes.	For all portions of buildings erected and used for
residential purposes, side and rear yards conforming to the requirements of the
R4 Zone (Section 12.11-C,2 and 3) shall be provided and maintained at the floor
level of the first story used for residential purposes.	3.	Lot Area. The lot
area requirements of the R4 Zone (Section 12.11-C,4) shall apply to all portions
of buildings erected and used for residential purposes. (Amended by Ord. No.
148,783, Eff. 10/13/76.)	4.	Loading Space – As required by Section 12.21-C,6.
Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22-C.
