                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“R5” MULTIPLE DWELLING ZONE. (§ 12.12)

  “R5” MULTIPLE DWELLING ZONE.	The following regulations shall apply in the
	A.	Use. No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or maintained,
except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use District” is
created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be
permitted therein:	1.	Any use permitted in the “R4” Multiple Dwelling
Zone.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 159,714, Eff. 4/8/85.) Hotels, motels and
apartment hotels under any of the conditions listed in Paragraphs (a) through
(d), below, subject to the requirements indicated.  Incidental business may be
conducted in such hotel, motel, apartment hotel or retirement hotel provided
such business is conducted only as a service to persons living therein, and
further provided such business is conducted within the main building, entrance
to the business is from the inside of the building, and no sign advertising such
business is visible from outside the building.	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492,
Eff. 10/10/00.)  when expressly provided for in an adopted specific plan;
or	(b)	when located on a lot fronting on a major or secondary highway, provided
such lot does not abut a single-family residential zone, provided further that
25 percent or more of the area of such lot is also classified in a commercial
zone; or	(c)	the project consists of not more than one addition to an existing
hotel, motel, or apartment hotel on a single site, the total of which shall not
exceed one–third of the existing number of guest rooms or suites of
rooms.	3.	Retirement hotels, as defined in Section 12.03. (Added by Ord. No.
159,714, Eff. 4/8/85.)	4.	Clubs or lodges (private non–profit), chartered as
such by the State, with yards as required in Sec. 12.21 C.3.	5.	Hospitals or
sanitariums (except animal hospitals), with yards as required in Sec. 12.21
C.3.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,325, Eff. 3/18/06.)	6.	Accessory uses and home
occupations, subject to the conditions specified in Section 12.05 A.16. of this
Code.   (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper.
3/5/97.)	7.	(None)	8.	Accessory buildings – Same as R4 Zone – Sec. 12.11 A.
(Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff. 9/23/56.)	9.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	10.	Name plates and signs, and required parking
spaces as provided for in Section 12.21 A. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	11.	Skilled Nursing Care Housing.  (Added
by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)	12.	Alzheimer’s/Dementia Care Housing. 
(Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public,
Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land
use map of the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map
as having existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar
facilities; any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way;
and any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was
not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by
Subsection A. of this section shall require prior approval in accordance with
the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this Code.	C.	Area. No building or
structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall be hereafter
erected or maintained unless the following yards and lot areas are provided and
maintained in connection with such building, structure or enlargement:	1.	Front
Yard – Same as required in “R3” Zone – Sec. 12.10 C.1.	2.	Side Yards –
Same as required in “R4” Zone –  Sec. 12.11 C.2.	3.	Rear Yard – Same as
required in “R4” Zone – Sec. 12.11 C.3.	4.	Lot Area – (Amended by Ord.
No. 174,994, Eff. 1/15/03.)  Every lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet
and a minimum area of 5,000 square feet.  The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be 200 square feet.	However, where a lot has a width of less than 50
feet or an area of less than 5,000 square feet and was held under separate
ownership or was of record as of September 23, 1956, and the lot was created in
conformance with the Subdivision Map Act, the lot may be occupied by any use
permitted in this section, except for those uses explicitly requiring more than
5,000 square feet of lot area.  In no case, however, shall more than two
dwelling units be permitted where a lot has an area of less than 4,000 square
feet.	Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22
C. 	5.	Loading Space – as required by Sec. 12.21 C.6.
