                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“C2” COMMERCIAL ZONE. (§ 12.14)

  “C2” COMMERCIAL ZONE.	The following regulations shall apply in the
	A.	Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except
for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use District” is created by
the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted
therein:	1.	The following stores, shops or businesses when conducted in
accordance with the limitations hereafter specified:	(a)	Types of uses:	(1)	Any
use permitted in the C1.5 Limited Commercial Zone by Section 12.13.5 A.2. of
this Code or in the C1 Limited Commercial Zone by Section 12.13 A.2. of this
Code. (Added by Ord. No. 156,924, Eff. 8/23/82.)	(2)	Art or antique
shop.	(3)	Bird store or taxidermist, or a pet shop for the keeping or sale of
domestic or wild animals, other than those wild animals specified in the
definition of “Accessory Use” as set forth in Section 12.03 of this Code,
under an appropriate permit issued by the Department of Animal Services as
provided in Section 53.38 of this Code. (“Department of Animal Regulation”
renamed “Department of Animal Services” by Ord. No. 174,735, Eff.
9/13/02.)	(4)	Carpenter, plumbing or sheet metal shop.	(5)	Catering
shop.	(6)	Feed and fuel store.	(7)	Interior decorating or upholstering
shop.	(8)	Sign painting shop.	(9)	Tire shop, provided the tire shop is in
compliance with all of the development standards and operating conditions set
forth in Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff.
3/24/07.)	(10)	Restaurant, tea room or cafe (including entertainment other than
dancing) or a ground floor restaurant with an outdoor eating area. An outdoor
eating area for ground floor restaurants may be located anywhere between the
building and any required side or rear yard.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,403,
Eff. 2/17/90.)	(b)	Limitations:	(1)	Any of the stores, shops or business listed
in Paragraph (a) may be operated as a retail business, i.e., where the majority
of the merchandise sold during each calendar month is sold at retail.	As an
integral part of any such retail business, there may be manufacturing of
products, or assembling, compounding, processing or treating of materials;
providing that the majority of such products and materials sold during each
calendar month are also sold at retail; that not more than five persons are
engaged in such manufacturing of products and assembling, compounding,
processing or treating of materials, and that such products, materials and all
activities in connection therewith, are not objectionable due to odor, dust,
smoke, noise, vibration or other causes.	(2)	Any of the stores, shops or
businesses listed in Paragraph (a) may be operated as a wholesale business,
i.e., where the majority of the merchandise sold during each calendar month is
sold at wholesale. The total area of all space used for storage on the premises
in connection with any one such business shall not exceed 4,500 square feet.
Such limitation shall include all storage space within a building, and all open
storage space as provided for in subdivision 42 of this section. No
manufacturing of products nor assembly, compounding, processing or treating of
materials shall be conducted in connection therewith.	(3)	In connection with the
stores, shops or businesses listed in Paragraph (a) all activities, other than
incidental storage and outdoor eating areas for ground floor restaurants, shall
be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building. (Amended by Ord. No.
165,403, Eff. 2/17/90.)	2.	Advertising signs or structures and
billboards.	3.	(Amended by Ord. No. 168,516, Eff. 2/14/93.)  Amusement
enterprises, including a billiard or pool hall use, whether primary or ancillary
to the subject business, bowling alley, games of skill and science, penny
arcades (except those containing more than four coin or slug-operated or
electrically, electronically or mechanically controlled game machines), shooting
gallery, skating rink and the like, if all activities other than incidental
storage are conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building, provided
that:	(a)	Billiard or pool hall use, whether primary or ancillary to the subject
business, other than those located in a mini-shopping center and subject to
conditional use approval pursuant to Section 12.24W27, shall also be subject to
the following conditions:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)	(1)	The billiard or pool hall use shall be located at least 500 feet
from an A or R zone; and	(2)	The billiard or pool hall use shall not be open for
business or operate between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.	4.	Any use
permitted in the C1.5 Limited Commercial Zone provided that all regulations and
limitations of the C1.5 Limited Commercial Zone are complied with except as
provided in this section. (Amended by Ord. No. 156,994, Eff.
9/25/82.)	5.	Auditoriums having a seating capacity for not more than three
thousand (3,000) people.	6.	(Amended by Ord. No. 169,584, Eff. 4/23/94.) 
Automotive fueling and service station, provided that:	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No.
172,468, Eff. 4/1/99.)  All tire and tube repairing, battery servicing,
automotive lubrication, mechanical adjustments and other vehicle maintenance
activities shall be conducted wholly within a building, except for:
	(1)	Those servicing operations which are normally made in the area immediately
adjacent to the pump island; and	(2)	The following services when conducted
within the first 18 feet in depth measured perpendicular to the entire length of
the building wall containing a garage bay door, provided said area shall not
displace any required parking:	(i)	electrical diagnostics;	(ii)	battery charging
and changing; and	(iii)	tire removal and replacement, if the vehicle is elevated
no more than 12 inches off the ground measured to the bottom of the tire.  A
portable hoist may be used for this function.	Except as provided in (2)(iii)
above, automotive hoists of any type or size shall be located or operated only
inside a building.	(b)	A six-foot high concrete or masonry wall, for the entire
length of the property line, shall be constructed on any lot line which abuts an
“A” or “R” Zone, or is separated therefrom only by an alley provided,
however, that for a distance  of 15 feet from the intersection of the lot line
with the street, said wall shall be only 3 feet 6 inches high, and provided
further, that where a lot line abuts an alley and the alley is used for ingress
and egress the wall may be omitted for a distance not to exceed 25 feet from the
intersection of said lot line with the street.  Such walls shall be without
openings and shall be of solid masonry or concrete with a minimum nominal
thickness of 6 inches.  Such walls shall be protected from damage or
destruction by automobiles by the erection or installation of wheel blocks,
guard rails or other appropriate devices on the property.	(c)	No driveway
approach shall be located within five feet of any property line abutting in an
“A” or “R” Zone, said distance to be measured from the intersection of
the lot line with the street to the far side of the nearest side slope of the
driveway.	(d)	No part of any pump island shall be located within 12 feet of any
street.	(e)	Display and/or storage of merchandise for sale, must be confined to
the rear half of the lot measured from all street frontages, except that display
of automotive merchandise for sale shall be permitted in enclosed buildings, on
the pump islands, in the open within three feet of the exterior walls of the
main building, and is not more than two portable or semi-portable cabinets,
provided each of said cabinets shall not exceed 6 feet in height, nor exceed 40
square feet in base area, and provided further that said cabinets are located
not less than 50 feet from all street lines.  The display, rental and/or
storage of household moving rental trucks and/or utility rental trailers as
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code shall also be permitted in connection with
an automobile service station, which is currently active in dispensing gasoline
and oil to the general public, and pursuant to the following
restrictions:	(1)	If the adjoining property, on any two of the three sides of
the involved parcel not abutting the main street is in the C1.5, C2, C4 or C5
zone, then up to 10% of the lot area may be used for the display, rental, and/or
storage of household moving rental trucks or utility rental trailers.	(2)	If the
adjoining property, on any two of the three sides of the involved parcel not
abutting the main street is in the CM or a less restrictive zone, then up to
25%  of the lot area may be used for the display, rental, and/or storage of
household moving rental trucks or utility rental trailers.	No storage, display
or rental of household moving rental trucks or utility rental trailers permitted
by Subparagraphs 1 and 2 above shall take place within 25 feet of a residential
zone.	Except for the storage, display or rental of household moving rental
trucks and utility rental trailers permitted herein, there shall be no rental,
storage or storage for rental purposes of equipment commonly used by contractors
or commercial vehicles which exceed a registered net weight of 5600
pounds.	(f)	Except as permitted in Subsection (e) hereof, open-air storage of
merchandise or materials, including rubbish containers, used tires, used
batteries and items of a similar nature must be confined to a storage area
completely enclosed by a solid, non-combustible wall or fence (with necessary
self-closing gates) six feet in height.  Said storage area must be at least 150
square feet in area.  No merchandise or material shall be stored higher than
said wall or fence.	(g)	Lights used to illuminate the service station site shall
be arranged so as to reflect the light away from the adjacent premises in an
“A” or “R” Zone and the light standard for such lights shall not exceed
20 feet in height.	(h)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 169,130, Eff.
12/16/93.)	(i)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 169,130, Eff.
12/16/93.)	(j)	Notwithstanding Section 12.24 W.27. of this Code, the automotive
fueling station use shall be in compliance with all of the development standards
and operating conditions set forth in Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code.  (Added
by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)	7.	(Amended by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff.
3/24/07.)  Used automobile and trailer sales area, provided the used automobile
and trailer sales area is in compliance with all of the development standards
and operating conditions set forth in Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code.	New
automobile sales area and a secondary used automobile sales area, provided that
all of the following conditions are met:	(a)	The lot containing the automobile
sales areas is located and developed in compliance with the provisions set forth
in Section 12.21 A.6. of this Code.	(b)	Any incidental repair of automobiles
shall be done within a building.	8.	Baseball or football stadiums or boxing
arenas, having a seating capacity for not more than three thousand (3,000)
people.	9.	Automotive laundry or wash rack, provided the automotive laundry or
wash rack is in compliance with all of the development standards and operating
conditions set forth in Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)	10.	Church.  (Added by Ord. No. 145,250, Eff.
12/24/73.)	11.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	12.	Film and tape
editing and motion picture reconstruction, provided that only safety film is
used; and projection and screening rooms associated with such uses shall seat no
more than 100 persons.  (Added by Ord. No. 162,514, Eff. 7/31/87.)	13.	Circus
or amusement enterprise of a similar type, transient in character.	14.	(Amended
by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Drive-in businesses, including theaters,
refreshment stands, restaurants, food stores, and the like when not subject to
the conditional use requirements of Section 12.24W.	15.	Ferris wheels,
carrousels, merry-go-rounds, and the like.	16.	Film exchange.	17.	Hospitals,
sanitariums or clinics, except animal hospitals, when located as required by
Section 12.21D.	18.	Ice storage house, not more than five (5) tons
capacity.	19.	Medical or dental clinics and laboratories.	20.	Music conservatory
or music instruction.	21.	Newsstand.	22.	Nursery, flower or plant, provided that
all incidental equipment and supplies, including fertilizer and empty cans, are
kept within a building.	23.	Parcel delivery service, branch, if all activities
including storage and loading and unloading, are conducted within a completely
enclosed building.	24.	Parking buildings and all buildings containing automobile
parking as primary or accessory uses. All buildings containing automobile
parking shall be subject to the requirements of Sections 12.21A5 and 12.12.1.5A
of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 160,273, Eff. 9/16/85.)	25.	Pony riding
ring, without stables.	26.	Printing, publishing or lithographing
establishments.	27.	Automotive repair, provided the automotive repair is in
compliance with all of the development standards and operating conditions set
forth in Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff.
3/24/07.)	28.	(None)	29.	Public services, including electric distributing
substation, fire or police station, telephone exchange, and the
like.	30.	Second-hand store, except pawnshops, if all activities other than
incidental storage are conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,257, Eff. 10/4/96.)	31.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 173,979,
Eff. 6/29/01.)	32.	Studios (except motion picture).	33.	School (elementary or
high), educational institution, or private school.  (Added by Ord. No. 145,250,
Eff. 12/24/73.)	34.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Indoor swap
meets when authorized pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24
W.42.	35.	Trade school, if not objectionable due to noise, odor, vibration, or
other similar causes.	36.	Wedding chapel, rescue mission or temporary revival
church.	37.	Massage parlor, where massage, alcohol rub, formentation, electric
or magnetic treatment, or similar treatment or manipulation of the human body is
administered by a medical practitioner, chiropractor, acupuncturist, physical
therapist or similar professional person licensed by the State of California,
and including an athletic club, health club, school, gymnasium, state licensed
cosmetology or barber establishment, reducing salon, spa or similar
establishment where massage or similar manipulation of the human body is offered
as an incidental or accessory service.  (Added by Ord. No. 155,718, Eff.
8/6/81.)	38.	Laundries or cleaning establishment, provided that:	(a)	All
activities other than incidental storage are conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building;	(b)	Not more than five persons are engaged in
operating any laundry or cleaning establishment, excluding personnel engaged
wholly in pressing, office and delivery work;	(c)	The majority of the articles
washed or cleaned during each calendar month period are handled at
retail;	(d)	The operations are not objectionable due to odor, dust, smoke,
noise, vibration or other causes;	(e)	Not more than two clothes cleaning units
shall be used in any clothes cleaning establishment, neither of which shall have
a rated load capacity of more than 40 pounds, or in lieu of the aforesaid two
clothes cleaning units there may be used one unit with a rated load capacity of
more than 40 pounds but it shall in no event exceed a rated load capacity of 80
pounds, and no cleaning fluid shall be used which is explosive or flammable at
temperatures below 138.5 degrees Fahrenheit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 143,291,
Eff. 6/20/72.)	39.	Miniature or pitch and putt golf courses, golf driving tees
or ranges, and similar commercial golf uses. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff.
4/5/73, Oper. 9/1/73.)	40.	Other uses similar to the above, as provided for in
Sec. 12.21 A.2.	41.	Conditional uses enumerated in Sec. 12.24 when the location
is approved pursuant to the provisions of said section. (Amended by Ord. No.
117,450, Eff. 12/18/60.)	42.	(Amended by Ord. No. 162,336, Eff. 6/6/87.) Uses
customarily incident to any of the above uses, and accessory buildings, when
located on the same lot. Open storage of materials and equipment, including used
materials and equipment, shall be permitted only when incidental to the use of
an office, store or other commercial building located on the front portion of
the same lot, and provided that:	(a)	Such storage is located on the rear
one-half of the lot and is confined to an area of not to exceed three thousand
(3,000) square feet;	(b)	No power driven excavating or road building equipment
is stored on the premises;	(c)	The storage area is completely enclosed by a
solid wall or fence not less than six (6) feet in height with necessary solid
gates of the same height;	(d)	No material or equipment is stored to a height
greater than that of the wall or fence enclosing the storage area; and	(e)	There
shall be no rental, storage or storage for rental purposes of a commercial
vehicle which exceeds a registered net weight of 5,600 pounds.	The phrase
“used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats, or airplanes which
are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not currently licensed by
the Department of Motor Vehicles.	43.	Automobile parking space required for
dwellings and for buildings other than dwellings, as provided for in Sec. 12.21
A.4.	44.	Shelter for the homeless (as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code)
containing not more than 30 beds and designed to serve not more than 30 persons.
Except within the Central City Community Plan area, any shelter for the homeless
established pursuant to this subdivision shall be located at least 600 feet from
another such shelter. The residential yard requirements of this section shall
not apply to a shelter in an existing non-residential building. The minimum
number of off-street parking spaces provided in conjunction with such use shall
comply with the requirements of Section 12.21 A.4.(w) of this Code. (Added by
Ord. No. 161,427, Eff. 8/2/86.)	45.	Motion picture, television, video and other
media production, no outdoor sets.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff.
8/14/98.)	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public
Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community
or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having existing lakes, waterways,
reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as
the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of
Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation
proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of
this Code.	C.	Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Oper.
9/1/73.)  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or
structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following yards,
lot areas and loading spaces are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement:	1.	Front Yard – Not required.	2.	Side and
Rear Yards – Not required for buildings erected and used exclusively for
commercial purposes.	For all portions of buildings erected and used for
residential purposes, side and rear yard conforming to the requirements of the 
R4 Zone (Section 12.11 C.2. and 3.) shall be provided and maintained at the
floor level of the first story used in whole or in part for residential
purposes.	3.	Lot Area – The lot area requirements of the R4 Zone (Section
12.11 C.4.) shall apply to all portions of buildings used for residential
purposes.	4.	Loading Space – As required by Section 12.21 C.6., Exceptions to
area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22 C.
