                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“R4” MULTIPLE DWELLING ZONE. (§ 12.11)

  “R4” MULTIPLE DWELLING ZONE.	The following regulations shall apply in the
	A.	Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or maintained,
except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use District” is
created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be
permitted therein:	1.	Any use permitted in the “R3” Multiple Dwelling
Zone.	2.	Churches (except rescue mission or temporary revival) or philanthropic
institutions, with yards as required in Sec. 12.21 C.	3.	Child care facilities
or nursery schools. (Amended by Ord. No. 145,474, Eff. 3/2/74.)	4.	(Amended by
Ord. No. 159,714, Eff. 4/8/85.) Hotels, motels and apartment hotels under any of
the following conditions subject to the requirements indicated;	(a)	(Amended by
Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  when expressly provided for in an adopted
specific plan, or	(b)	when located on a lot fronting on a major or secondary
highway, provided such lot does not abut a single-family residential zone;
provided, further that 25 percent or more of the area of such lot is also
classified in a commercial zone; or	(c)	the project consists of not more than
one addition to an existing hotel, motel or apartment hotel on a single site,
the total of which shall not exceed one-third of the existing number of guest
rooms or suites of rooms.	5.	Fraternity or sorority houses and
dormitories.	6.	Schools, elementary and high, or educational institutions, with
yards as required in Sec. 12.21 C.3.	7.	Museums or libraries (non–profit) with
yards as required in Sec. 12.21 C.3.	8.	Accessory uses and home occupations,
subject to the conditions specified in Section 12.05 A.16. of this Code. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	9.	Retirement hotels,
as defined in Section 12.03. (Added by Ord. No. 159,714, Eff.
4/8/85.)	10.	Accessory buildings, including private garages, accessory living
quarters, guest homes, recreation rooms, or private stables, provided
that:	(a)	No stable is located or maintained on a lot having an area of less
than 20,000 square feet and its capacity does not exceed one equine for each
5,000 square feet of lot area. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff.
11/22/82.)	(b)	Accessory living quarters, a guest house, recreation room or a
private garage or any combination of said uses may be included in one building,
not exceeding two stories in height;	(c)	An accessory living quarters or guest
house shall be considered as a dwelling unit in determining the minimum lot area
necessary for the proposed development.	For the location of accessory buildings,
refer to Sec. 12.21 C and Sec. 12.22 C. (Amended by Ord. No. 107,884, Eff.
9/23/56.)	11.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	12.	Name
plates and signs, and required parking spaces as provided for in Section 12.21
A. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	It
is not an unreasonable exercise of the police power to prohibit the maintenance
of signs respecting a person’s business in front of a dwelling house in an
R–4 district.
	Kort v. City of Los Angeles. 52 Cal. App. 2d 804.	It is within the police power
to regulate the size of signs and the information contained thereon.
	Serve Yourself Gas, etc. v. Brock, 39 Cal. 2d 813.	13.	Shelter for the homeless
(as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code) containing not more than 30 beds and
designed to serve not more than 30 persons. Except within the Central City
Community Plan area, any shelter for the homeless established pursuant to this
subdivision shall be located at least 600 feet from another such shelter. The
minimum number of off-street parking spaces provided in conjunction with such
use shall comply with the requirements of Section 12.21 A.4.(w) of this Code.
(Added by Ord. No. 161,427, Eff. 8/2/86.)	14.	Eldercare Facility.  (Added by
Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public,
Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land
use map of the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map
as having existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar
facilities; any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way;
and any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was
not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by
Subsection A. of this section shall require prior approval in accordance with
the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this Code.	C.	Area.  No building or
structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall be hereafter
erected or maintained unless the following yards and lot areas are provided and
maintained in connection with such building, structure or enlargement.	1.	Front
Yard – Same as required in “R3” Zone – Sec. 12.10 C.1.	2.	Side Yards –
For a main building not more than two stores in height, there shall be a side
yard on each side of said building of not less than five feet, except that where
the lot is less than 50 feet in width, the side yard may be reduced to 10% of
the width of the lot, but in no event to less than three feet in width. For a
building more than two stories in height, one foot shall be added to the width
of such side yard for each additional story above the second story, but in no
event shall a side yard of more than 16 feet in width be required. (Amended by
Ord. No. 110,225, Eff. 11/23/57.)	3.	Rear Yard – There shall be a rear yard of
not less than 15 feet in depth. For a building more than three stories in
height, one foot shall be added to the depth of such rear yard for each
additional story above the third story, but such rear yard need not exceed 20
feet.  (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)	4.	Lot Area – (Amended by
Ord. No. 174,994, Eff. 1/15/03.)  Every lot shall have a minimum width of 50
feet and a minimum area of 5,000 square feet.  The minimum lot area per
dwelling unit shall be 400 square feet.	However, where a lot has a width of less
than 50 feet or an area of less than 5,000 square feet and was held under
separate ownership or was of record as of September 23, 1956, and the lot was
created in conformance with the Subdivision Map Act, the lot may be occupied by
any use permitted in this section, except for those uses explicitly requiring
more than 5,000 square feet of lot area.  In no case, however, shall more than
two dwelling units be permitted where a lot has an area of less than 4,000
square feet.	The minimum lot area per guest room shall be 200 square
feet.	Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22
C.	5.	Loading space as required by Section 12.21 C.6.	Exceptions to Area
regulations are provided for in Sec. 12.22 C.
