                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“M3” HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONE. (§ 12.20)

  “M3” HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONE.	The following regulations shall apply in the
	A.	Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and no structure shall
be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the
following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use District” is created by the
provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted
therein:	1.	Any use permitted in the “M2” zone, except the following: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 163,073, Eff. 1/30/88.)	(a)	Any building, structure or
portion thereof permitted in any R Zone, other than accessory buildings which
are incident to the use of the land, unless approved pursuant to the provisions
of Section 12.24.  (Amended by Ord. No. 145,474, Eff. 3/2/74.)	(b)	Any building
containing dwelling units or guest rooms.	(c)	Hospitals or sanitariums, except
animal hospitals. (Amended by Ord. No. 145,250, Eff. 12/24/73.)	(d)	The open air
sale of merchandise from a privately owned vacant lot or drive-in theater.
(Amended by Ord. No. 156,684, Eff. 6/19/82.)	(e)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492,
Eff. 10/10/00.)  Indoor swap meets, unless authorized pursuant to the
provisions of Section 12.24 W.42.	2.	Acetylene gas manufacture or
storage.	3.	Alcohol manufacture.	4.	Ammonia, bleaching powder, or chlorine
manufacture.	5.	Asphalt manufacture or refining.	6.	The following uses when
conducted in accordance with the limitations hereafter specified.	(a)	Types of
uses. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,770, Eff. 9/15/79.)	(1)	Automobile dismantling
yard.	(2)	Junk yard.	(3)	Storage, display, processing or sales of second-hand
furniture and appliances.	(4)	Scrap metal processing yard.	(5)	The open storage
of material and equipment, including used materials and equipment. The phrase
“used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats, or airplanes which
are inoperable, wrecked damaged or unlicensed. i.e. not currently licensed by
the Department of Motor Vehicles. (Added by Ord. No. 162,335, Eff.
6/6/87.)	(6)	Cargo container storage yard, when established and operated in
conformance with the standards contained in Section 12.21 A.22. of this Code. 
(Added by Ord. No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)	(b)	Limitations.  The uses set forth
in Paragraph (a) above, except for cargo container storage yards when
established and operated in conformance with the standards contained in Section
12.21 A.22. of this Code, are subject to the following limitations:  (Amended
by Ord. No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)	(1)	Notwithstanding any provision of Section
12.23 C.6. of this Code, from and after August 25, 1970, all of the uses
described in Paragraph (a) of this subdivision in the “M3” Zone shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building, or shall be completely enclosed
with a solid wall or solid fence not less than eight feet in height with
necessary solid gates of like height.	(2)	Where a required wall or fence has
been erected between the area wherein the use is conducted and a street, no
material is stored to a height greater than that of such wall or fence within 50
feet thereof unless the height of the wall or fence is 10 feet or more in which
case the distance within which no material may be stored above the height of the
wall or fence shall be 37 feet. Provided, however, that a scrap metal processing
yard that is entirely located at least 500 feet from a more restrictive zone, is
exempt from the above stacking limitations.	(3)	Paved off-street parking spaces
have been provided as specified in Section 12.19 A.4.(b)(4).	(4)	Landscaping is
provided as specified in Section 12.19 A.4.(b)(5).	EXCEPTION:	Any of the uses
enumerated in Section 12.20 A.6., located on land which is entirely separated
from a more restrictive zone in the City of Los Angeles by a body of water at
least 500 feet wide shall be exempt from the foregoing enclosure
limitations.	(c)	Compliance.  Any use lawfully existing in the M3 Zone to which
Paragraph (b) of this subdivision is applicable shall be completely removed from
such zone within one year unless said use has been made to comply with that
regulation. Provided, however, that upon a showing that substantial compliance
has been effected, the Director of Planning may grant an extension of time to
complete the work necessary to effect compliance. No extension so granted shall
exceed six months in duration, nor shall more than one such extension be granted
with respect to any individual use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 145,040, Eff.
10/15/73,)	7.	Blast furnace or coke oven.	8.	Boiler works.	9.	Brick, tile or
terra cotta manufacture.	10.	Chemical manufacture.	11.	Concrete or cement
products manufacture in the open.	12.	Cotton gin or oil mill.	13.	Fish smoking,
curing or canning.	14.	Freight classification yard.	15.	Iron or steel foundry or
fabrication plant and heavyweight casting.	16.	Lamp black
manufacture.	17.	Oilcloth or linoleum manufacture.	18.	Oil drilling and
production of oil, gas or hydrocarbons, except that oil drilling and production
of oil, gas and hydrocarbons within 500 feet of a more restrictive zone shall be
subject to the provisions of Subsection A and H of Section 13.01 of this
article. (Amended by Ord. No. 116,820, Eff. 9/26/60.)	19.	Ore
reduction.	20.	Paint, oil (including linseed), shellac, turpentine, lacquer or
varnish manufacture.	21.	Paper and pulp manufacture.	22.	Petroleum products
manufacture.	23.	Plastic manufacture.	24.	Potash works.	25.	Pyroxyline
manufacture.	26.	Quarry or stone mill.	27.	Railroad repair shops.	28.	Rock, sand
or gravel distribution; surface mining operations subject to the restrictions
provided in Section 13.03. (Amended by Ord. No. 155,950, Eff.
12/5/81.)	29.	Rolling mills.	30.	Rubber or gutta-percha manufacture or
treatment.	31.	Salt works.	32.	Soap manufacture.
	33.	Sodium compounds manufacture.	34.	Stove or shoe polish manufacture.	35.	Tar
distillation or tar products manufacture.	36.	Wool pulling or scoring.	37.	And
in general those uses which may be obnoxious or offensive by reason of emission
of odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise, vibration, and the like; provided, however,
that none of the following uses shall be located nearer than five hundred (500)
feet to a more restricted zone.	(a)	Acid manufacture.	(b)	Automobile, equine or
motorcycle race track. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff. 11/22/82.)	(c)	Cement,
lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture.	(d)	Distillation of
bones.	(e)	Drop forge industries manufacturing forgings with power
hammers.	(f)	Explosives, manufacture or storage, subject to other provisions of
this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 111,587, Eff. 8/9/58.)	(g)	(None)	(h)	Fertilizer
manufacture.	(i)	Garbage, offal, or dead animal dumping. (Added by Ord. No.
158,939, Eff. 6/21/84.)	(j)	Gas manufacture.	(k)	Glue manufacture.	(l)	Petroleum
refining.	(m)	Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ores.	(n)	Stock yards or
feeding pens.	(o)	(None)	(p)	Tannery or the curing or storage of raw
hides.	38.	Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses and accessory
buildings when located on the same lot.	For the location of accessory buildings
refer to Sec. 12.11-C,2 and Sec. 12.22- C,12.	39.	Automobile parking space, for
buildings other than dwellings, as required by Sec. 12.21-A,4.	B.	Restriction. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot
designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or
Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community or district plan; any
lot shown on the map as having existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris
basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as the location of a
freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where
a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of
the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require prior approval
in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this Code.	C.	Loading
Space – No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or
structure, shall be erected or maintained unless a loading space conforming to
the provisions of Sec. 12.21-C,6 is provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement.
