                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN CENTERS STUDY AREAS. (§ 12.21.5)

  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN CENTERS STUDY AREAS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/ 3/86.)	Within the boundaries of the
Centers Study areas designated on Maps numbered 1 through 3 and 5 through 28 in
Council File Nos. 86-0958, 86-0957, 85-0193 and 84-1554, the height district
limitations set forth below in Subsections A. through F. shall apply.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	A.	The total floor area contained in all
the buildings on a lot in Height District No. CSA 1 shall not exceed three times
the buildable area of said lot.	Portions of Height District No. CSA 1 may be
designated as being in an “L” Limited Height District, and no building or
structure in Height District No. CSA 1-L shall exceed six stories, nor shall it
exceed 75 feet in height. Portions of Height District No. CSA 1 may be
designated as being in a “VL” Very Limited Height District, and no building
or structure in Height District No. CSA 1-VL shall exceed three stories, nor
shall it exceed 45 feet in height.  Notwithstanding that limitation, portions
of Height District No. CSA 1-VL that are also in the RAS3 or RAS4 zones shall
not exceed 50 feet in height.  Portions of Height District No. CSA 1 may also
be designated as being in an “XL” Extra Limited Height District, and no
building or structure in Height District No. CSA 1-XL shall exceed two stories,
nor shall the highest point of the roof of any building or structure located in
such District exceed 30 feet in height.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff.
1/15/03.)	EXCEPTION:  A building in Height District Nos. CSA 1-XL, CSA1-VL and
CSA1-L designed and used entirely for residential purposes, or in the RAS3 or
RAS4 Zones, shall be limited as to the number of feet in height, but not as to
the number of stories.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)	B.	The
total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in Height District No.
CSA2 shall not exceed six times the buildable area of said lot.	C.	The total
floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in Height District No. CSA3
shall not exceed ten times the buildable area of said lot.	D.	The total floor
area contained in all the buildings on a lot in Height District No. CSA4 shall
not exceed thirteen times the buildable area of said lot.	E.	Buildings and
structures shall further comply with the provisions of Section 12.21.1A5, 6, 8,
9 and 10 and Section 12.21.1B1, 2, 3 and 4.	F.	Additional limitations on the
height and/or floor area of any building or structure may be required as set
forth in any applicable specific plan.[Editor's note:  Maps formerly associated
with this section were deleted by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.]
