                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“HP” HISTORIC PRESERVATION OVERLAY ZONE. (§ 12.20.3)

  “HP” HISTORIC PRESERVATION OVERLAY ZONE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,891, Eff. 5/12/04.)	The following regulations shall
apply in an HP Historic Preservation Overlay Zone:	A.	Purpose.  It is hereby
declared as a matter of public policy that the recognition, preservation,
enhancement, and use of buildings, structures, Landscaping, Natural Features,
and areas within the City of Los Angeles having Historic, architectural,
cultural or aesthetic significance are required in the interest of the health,
economic prosperity, cultural enrichment and general welfare of the people. 
The purpose of this section is to:	1.	Protect and enhance the use of buildings,
structures, Natural Features, and areas, which are reminders of the City’s
history, or which are unique and irreplaceable assets to the City and its
neighborhoods, or which are worthy examples of past architectural
styles;	2.	Develop and maintain the appropriate settings and environment to
preserve these buildings, structures, Landscaping, Natural Features, and
areas;	3.	Enhance property values, stabilize neighborhoods and/or communities,
render property eligible for financial benefits, and promote tourist trade and
interest;	4.	Foster public appreciation of the beauty of the City, of the
accomplishments of its past as reflected through its buildings, structures,
Landscaping, Natural Features, and areas;	5.	Promote education by preserving and
encouraging interest in cultural, social, economic, political and architectural
phases of its history;	6.	Promote the involvement of all aspects of the City’s
diverse neighborhoods in the historic preservation process; and	7.	To ensure
that all procedures comply with the California Environmental Quality Act
(CEQA).	B.	Definitions.  For the purposes of this ordinance, the following
words and phrases are defined:	1.	ADDITION is an extension or increase in floor
area or height of a building or structure.	2.	ALTERATION is any exterior change
or modification of a building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature or lot
within a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone including but not limited to
changing exterior paint color, removal of significant trees or Landscaping,
installation or removal of fencing, and similar Projects, and including street
features, furniture or fixtures.	3.	BOARD is the respective Historic
Preservation Board as established by this section.	4.	CERTIFICATE OF
APPROPRIATENESS is an approved certificate issued for the construction,
Addition, demolition, Reconstruction, Alteration, removal, or relocation of any
publicly or privately owned building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature,
or lot within a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone that is identified as a
Contributing Element in the Historic Resources Survey for the zone, including
street features, furniture or fixtures.	5.	CERTIFICATE OF COMPATIBILITY is an
approved certificate issued for the construction of a new building or structure
on a lot, or building replacement of an element, identified as Non-Contributing,
or not listed, in the Historic Resources Survey for the zone.	6.	CONTRIBUTING
ELEMENT is any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature identified on
the Historic Resources Survey as contributing to the Historic significance of
the Historic Preservation Overlay Zone, including a building or structure which
has been altered, where the nature and extent of the Alterations are determined
reversible by the Historic Resources Survey.	7.	CULTURAL is anything pertaining
to the concepts, skills, habits, arts, instruments or institutions of a given
people at any given point in time.	8.	HISTORIC is any building, structure,
Landscaping, Natural Feature, or lot, including street features, furniture or
fixtures which depicts, represents or is associated with persons or phenomena
which significantly affect or which have significantly affected the functional
activities, heritage, growth or development of the City, State, or
Nation.	9.	HISTORICAL PROPERTY CONTRACT is a contract, between an Owner or
Owners of a Historical-Cultural Monument or a Contributing Element and the City
of Los Angeles, which meets all requirements of California Government Code
Sections 50281 and 50282 and 19.140 et seq. of the Los Angeles Administrative
Code.	10.	HISTORIC RESOURCES SURVEY is a document, which identifies all
contributing and non-contributing buildings, structures and all contributing
Landscaping, Natural Features and lots, individually or collectively, including
street features, furniture or fixtures, and which is certified as to its
accuracy and completeness by the Cultural Heritage Commission.	11.	LANDSCAPING
is the design and organization of landforms, hardscape, and softscape, including
individual groupings of trees, shrubs, groundcovers, vines, pathways, arbors,
etc.	12.	MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR is any work done to correct the deterioration,
decay of, or damage to a building, structure or lot, or any part thereof,
including replacement in- kind where required, and which does not involve a
change in the existing design, materials, or exterior paint color.	13.	MONUMENT
is any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature, or lot designated as a
City Historic-Cultural Monument.	14.	NATURAL FEATURE is any significant tree,
plant life, geographical or geological feature identified individually or
collectively on the Historic Resources Survey as contributing to the Cultural or
Historical significance of the Historic Preservation Overlay
Zone.	15.	NON-CONTRIBUTING ELEMENT is any building, structure, Natural Feature,
lot, or Landscaping, that is identified in the Historic Resources Survey as a
Non-Contributing Element, or not listed in the Historic Resources
Survey.	16.	OWNER is any person, association, partnership, firm, corporation or
public entity identified as the holder of title on any property as shown on the
records of the City Engineer or on the last assessment roll of the County of Los
Angeles, as applicable.  For purposes of this section, the term Owner shall
also refer to an appointed representative of an association, partnership, firm,
corporation, or public entity which is a recorded Owner.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)	17.	PRESERVATION ZONE is any area of the City of Los
Angeles containing buildings, structures, Landscaping, Natural Features or lots
having Historic, architectural, Cultural or aesthetic significance and
designated as a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone under the provisions of this
section.	18.	PROJECT is the Addition, Alteration, construction, demolition,
Reconstruction, Rehabilitation, relocation, removal or Restoration of the
exterior of any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature, or  lot,
within a Preservation Zone, except as provided under Subsection H.  A Project
may or may not require a building permit, and may include but not be limited to
changing exterior paint color, removal of significant trees or Landscaping,
installation or removal of fencing, replacement of windows and/or doors which
are character-defining features of architectural styles, changes to public
spaces and similar activities.	19.	RECONSTRUCTION is the act or process of
reproducing by new construction the exact form, features and details of a
vanished building, portion of a building, structure, landscape, Natural Feature,
or object as it appeared at a specific period of time, on its original or a
substitute lot.	20.	REHABILITATION is the act or process of returning a property
to a state of utility, through repair or Alteration, which makes possible an
efficient contemporary use while preserving those portions or features of the
property which are significant to its Historical, architectural and Cultural
values.	21.	RENTER is any person, association, partnership, firm, corporation,
or public entity which has rented or leased a dwelling unit or other structure
within a Preservation Zone for a continuous time period of at least three
years.  For purposes of this section, the term renter shall also refer to an
appointed representative of an association, partnership, firm, corporation, or
public entity which is a renter.	22.	RESTORATION is the act or process of
accurately recovering the form, features and details of a property as it
appeared at a particular period of time by means of the removal of later work or
by the replacement of missing earlier work.	23.	RIGHT-OF-WAY is the dedicated
area that includes roadways, medians and/or sidewalks.	C.	Relationship to Other
Provisions of the Code.  Whenever the City Council establishes, adds land to,
eliminates land from or repeals in its entirety a Preservation Zone, the
provisions of this section shall not be construed as an intent to abrogate any
other provision of this Code.  When it appears that there is a conflict, the
most restrictive requirements of this Code shall apply, except for a requirement
in this section, which may compromise public safety if enforced.	D.	Historic
Preservation Board.	1.	Establishment and Composition.  There is hereby
established for each Preservation Zone a Historic Preservation Board.  Each
Board shall have, as part of its name, words linking it to its area of
administration and distinguishing it from all other boards.  A Board shall be
comprised of five members.  At least three members shall be Renters or Owners
of property in the Preservation Zone.  For the purposes of this subsection, a
Preservation Zone shall be considered predominantly residential when the total
number of residentially zoned lots is greater than the combined total of lots in
all other zone classifications.  In predominantly residential Preservation
Zones, at least three members shall be Owners or Renters who reside in the
Preservation Zone.  When property is owned or rented by corporations,
governments or other organizations, the Board members may be appointees of those
organizations.  In the event a Preservation Zone is established for an area
insufficient in size to provide for a Board whose members meet the requirements
of this subsection, for appointment purposes only, the area may be expanded to
include the community plan area in which the Preservation Zone is located.  In
the event a Board still cannot be comprised of members who meet the requirements
of this subsection, the Cultural Heritage Commission shall assume all the powers
and duties otherwise assigned to the Board for the Preservation Zone, until a
Board can be established.	2.	Term of Membership.  Members of the Board shall
serve for a term of four years. Members of the Board whose terms have expired
may continue to serve on the Board until their replacements are
appointed.	3.	Appointment of Members.  To the maximum extent practicable,
members shall be appointed as follows:	(a)	One member having extensive real
estate or construction experience shall be appointed by the Mayor.	(b)	One
member who is a Renter or Owner of property in the Preservation Zone shall be
appointed by the councilmember of the district in which the Preservation Zone is
located.  In cases where the Preservation Zone is located in more than one
council district, the appointment shall be made by the councilmember
representing the greatest land area in the Preservation Zone.  In predominantly
residential Preservation Zones, the Owner or Renter shall also be a resident of
the Preservation Zone.	(c)	Two members, one of which shall be an architect
licensed by the State of California, shall be appointed by the Cultural Heritage
Commission.  In the event only one appointment under (a) or (b) above is a
Renter or Owner in the Preservation Zone, then at least one of the appointees of
the Cultural Heritage Commission shall be a Renter or Owner of property in the
Preservation Zone.  In the event neither of the appointments under (a) or (b)
above is an Owner of property in the Preservation Zone, then at least one of the
appointees of the Cultural Heritage Commission shall also be an Owner of
property in the Preservation Zone.  In predominantly residential Preservation
Zones, the Owners or Renters shall also be residents of the Preservation
Zone. 	(d)	One member, who is an Owner of property in the Preservation Zone,
shall be appointed by the Board.  The Board shall consider appointee
suggestions from the Certified Neighborhood Council representing the district in
which the Preservation Zone is located.   In predominantly residential
Preservation Zones, the Owners or Renters shall also be residents of the
Preservation Zone.  In cases where the Preservation Zone is located in an area
represented by more than one Neighborhood Council, the appointee suggestions
shall be made by the Neighborhood Council representing the greatest land area in
the Preservation Zone.  In those Preservation Zones containing no Certified
Neighborhood Councils, or if, after notification of a vacancy by the Planning
Department, the Certified Neighborhood Council fails to make suggestions within
30 days, or at least one Certified Neighborhood Council meeting has been held,
whichever occurs first, the Board may make its appointment without delay.	All
members shall have demonstrated a knowledge of, and interest in, the culture,
buildings, structures, Historic architecture, history and features of the area
encompassed by the Preservation Zone and, to the extent feasible, shall have
experience in historic preservation.  The appointing authorities are encouraged
to consider the cultural diversity of the Preservation Zone in making their
appointments.  Appointees serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority and
the appointment may be rescinded at any time prior to the expiration of a
member’s term.	4.	Vacancies.  In the event of a vacancy occurring during the
term of a member of the Board, the same body or official, or their successors,
who appointed the member shall make a new appointment.  The new appointment
shall serve a four year term beginning on the date of appointment.  Where the
member is required to have specified qualifications, the vacancy shall be filled
with a person having these qualifications.  If the appointing authority does
not make an appointment within 60 days of the vacancy, the President of the City
Council shall make a temporary appointment to serve until the appointing
authority makes an appointment to occupy the seat.	5.	Expiration of Term.  Upon
expiration of a term for any member of the Board, the appointment for the next
succeeding term shall be made by the same body or official, or their successors,
which made the previous appointment.  No member of a Board shall serve more
than two consecutive four year terms.	6.	Boardmember Performance.  Boardmembers
shall be expected to regularly attend scheduled Board meetings and fully
participate in the powers and duties of the Board. Appointees serve at the
pleasure of the appointing authority and the appointment may be rescinded at any
time prior to the expiration of a member’s term.  A Boardmember with more
than three consecutive unexcused absences or eight unexcused absences in a year
period from regularly scheduled meetings may be removed by the appointing
authority.  Excused absences may be granted by the Board chair.  In the event
a Boardmember accrues unexcused absences, the Board shall notify the appointing
authority.	7.	Organization and Administration.  Each Board shall schedule
regular meetings at fixed times within the month with a minimum of two meetings
a month.  Meetings may be canceled if no deemed complete applications are
received at least three working days prior to the next scheduled meeting. 
There shall be at least one meeting a year.  The Board shall establish rules,
procedures and guidelines as it may deem necessary to properly exercise its
function.  The Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson who shall
serve for a one year period.  The Board shall designate a Secretary and
Treasurer who shall serve at the Board’s pleasure.  Three members shall
constitute a quorum.   Decisions shall be determined by majority vote of the
Board.  Public minutes and records shall be kept of all meetings and
proceedings showing the attendance, resolutions, findings, determinations and
decisions, including the vote of each member.  To the extent possible, the
staffs of the Department of City Planning and Cultural Affairs Department may
assist the Board in performing its duties and functions.	8.	Power and Duties. 
When considering any matter under its jurisdiction, the Board shall have the
following power and duties:	(a)	To evaluate any proposed changes to the
boundaries of the Preservation Zone it administers and make recommendations to
the City Planning Commission, Cultural Heritage Commission and City
Council.	(b)	To evaluate any Historic resources survey, resurvey, partial
resurvey, or modification undertaken within the Preservation Zone it administers
and make recommendations to the City Planning Commission, Cultural Heritage
Commission and City Council.	(c)	To study, review and evaluate any proposals for
the designation of Historic- Cultural Monuments within the Preservation Zone it
administers and make recommendations to the Cultural Heritage Commission and
City Council, and to request that other City departments develop procedures to
provide notice to the Boards of actions relating to Historic-Cultural
Monuments.	(d)	To evaluate applications for Certificates of Appropriateness or
Certificates of Compatibility and make recommendations to the Director or the
Area Planning Commission.	(e)	To encourage understanding of and participation in
historic preservation by residents, visitors, private businesses, private
organizations and governmental agencies.	(f)	In pursuit of the purposes of this
section, to render guidance and advice to any Owner or occupant on construction,
demolition, Alteration, removal or relocation of any Monument or any building,
structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature or lot within the Preservation Zone it
administers.  This guidance and advice shall be consistent with approved
procedures and guidelines, and the Preservation Plan, or in absence of a Plan,
the guidance and advice shall be consistent with the Secretary of Interior’s
Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic
Buildings.	(g)	To tour the Preservation Zone it represents on a regular basis,
to promote the purposes of this section and to report to appropriate City
agencies matters which may require enforcement action.	(h)	To assist in the
updating of the Historic Resources Survey for the Preservation Zone utilizing
the criteria in Subsection F.3.(c), below.	(i)	To make recommendations to
decision makers concerning façade easements, covenants, and the imposition of
other conditions for the purposes of historic preservation.	(j)	To make
recommendations to the City Council concerning the utilization of grants and
budget appropriations to promote historic preservation.	(k)	To employ its own
staff or hire consultants as may be required in the performance of its
duties.	(l)	To accept donations from outside sources to be utilized for historic
preservation efforts, and to maintain public records accounting for the
funds.	(m)	To assist in the preparation of a Preservation Plan, which clarifies
and elaborates upon these regulations as they apply to the Preservation Zone,
and which contains the elements listed in Subsection E.3.	9.	 Conflict of
Interest.  No Boardmember shall discuss with anyone the merits of any matter
pending before the Board other than during a duly called meeting of the Board or
subcommittee of the Board. No member shall accept professional employment on a
case that has been acted upon by the Board in the previous 12 months or is
reasonably expected to be acted upon by the Board in the next 12
months.	E.	Preservation Plan.  A Preservation Plan clarifies and elaborates
upon these regulations as they apply to individual Preservation Zones.  A
Preservation Plan is used by the Director, Board, property Owners and residents
in the application of preservation principles within a Preservation
Zone.	1.	Preparation of a Preservation Plan.  A draft Preservation Plan shall
be made available by the Board for review and comment to property Owners and
Renters within the Preservation Zone.	(a)	Creation of a Preservation Plan where
a Board exists.  Where established, a Board, with the assistance of the
Director, shall prepare a Preservation Plan, which may be prepared with the
assistance of historic preservation groups.	(b)	Creation of a Preservation Plan
where no Board exists.  Where no Board exists, or has yet to be appointed, the
Director, in consultation with the Councilmember(s) representing the
Preservation Zone, may create a working committee of diverse neighborhood
stakeholders to prepare a Preservation Plan for the Preservation Zone.  This
committee shall not assume any duties beyond preparation of the Preservation
Plan.	2.	Approval of a Preservation Plan.	(a)	Commission Hearing and Notice.  A
draft Preservation Plan shall be set for a public hearing before the City
Planning Commission or a hearing officer as directed by the City Planning
Commission prior to the Commission action. Notice of the hearing shall be given
as provided in Section 12.24 D.2. of this Code.	(b)	Cultural Heritage Commission
Recommendation. The Cultural Heritage Commission shall submit its recommendation
regarding a proposed Preservation Plan within 45 days from the date of the
submission to the Commission.  Upon action, or failure to act, the Cultural
Heritage Commission shall transmit its recommendation, comments, and any related
files to the City Planning Commission.	(c)	Decision by City Planning
Commission.  Following, notice and public hearing, pursuant to Subsection
E.2.(a), above, the City Planning Commission may make its report and approve,
approve with changes, or disapprove a Preservation Plan.	3.	Elements.  A
Preservation Plan shall contain the following elements:	(a)	A mission
statement;	(b)	Goals and objectives;	(c)	A function of the Plan section,
including the role and organization of a Preservation Plan, Historic
Preservation Overlay Zone process overview, and work exempted from review, if
any, and delegation of Board authority to the Director, if any;	(d)	The Historic
Resources Survey;	(e)	A brief context statement which identifies the Historic,
architectural and Cultural significance of the Preservation Zone;	(f)	Design
guidelines for Rehabilitation or Restoration of single and multi-family
residential, commercial and other non-residential buildings, structures, and
public areas.  The guidelines shall use the Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic
Buildings; and	(g)	Preservation incentives and adaptive reuse policies,
including policies concerning adaptive reuse projects permitted under Section
12.24 X.12. of this Code.	4.	Modification of a City Planning Commission Approved
Preservation Plan.  After approval by the City Planning Commission, a
Preservation Plan shall be reviewed by the Board at least every two years.  Any
modifications to the Plan resulting from the review shall be processed pursuant
to the provisions of  Subsection E, above.	F.	Procedures for Establishment, 
Boundary Change or Repeal of a Preservation Zone.	1.	Requirements.  The
processing of an initiation or an application to establish, change the
boundaries of or repeal a Preservation Zone shall conform with all the
requirements of Section 12.32 A. through D. of this Code and the following
additional requirements.	2.	Initiation of Preservation Zone.	(a)	By City
Council, the City Planning Commission, the Director of Planning and the Cultural
Heritage Commission.  In addition to  the provisions of LAMC 12.32 A.,  the
Cultural Heritage Commission may initiate proceedings to establish, repeal, or
change the boundaries of a Preservation Zone.  Upon initiation by City Council,
the City Planning Commission, the Director of Planning, or the Cultural Heritage
Commission, a Historic Resources Survey shall be prepared, pursuant to
Subdivision 3., below.	(b)	By Application.  The proceedings for the
establishment of a Preservation Zone may also be initiated by Owners or Renters
of property within the boundaries of the proposed or existing Preservation Zone,
pursuant to Section 12.32 S.3.(b) of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,412,
Eff. 1/2/11.)	(1)	An Historic Resources Survey shall not be prepared for a
proposed Preservation Zone until such an application is verified by the Planning
Department to contain the signatures of at least 75 percent of the Owners or
lessees of property within the proposed district, pursuant to the requirements
of Section 12.32 S.3.(b) of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,412, Eff.
1/2/11.)	(2)	The application shall not be deemed complete until the requirements
of Subsection F.2.(b)(1), above are met and an Historic Resources Survey for the
proposed Preservation Zone has been certified by the Cultural Heritage
Commission pursuant to Subdivision 4.(a), below.	3.	Historic Resources
Survey.	(a)	Purpose.  Each Preservation Zone shall have an Historic Resources
Survey, which identifies all Contributing and Non-Contributing Elements and is
certified as to its accuracy and completeness by the Cultural Heritage
Commission.	(b)	Context Statement.  In addition to the requirements above, the
historic resource survey shall also include a context statement supporting a
finding establishing the relation between the physical environment of the
Preservation Zone and its history, thereby allowing the identification of
Historic features in the area as contributing or non-contributing.  The context
statement shall represent the history of the area by theme, place, and time. 
It shall define the various Historical factors which shaped the development of
the area.  It shall define a period of significance for the Preservation Zone,
and relate Historic features to that period of significance.  It may include,
but not be limited to, Historical activities or events, associations with
Historic personages, architectural styles and movements, master architects,
designers, building types, building materials, landscape design, or pattern of
physical development that influenced the character of the Preservation Zone at a
particular time in history.	(c)	Finding of Contribution.  For the purposes of
this section, no building, structure, Landscaping, or Natural Feature shall be
considered a Contributing Element unless it is identified as a Contributing
Element in the historic resource survey for the applicable Preservation Zone. 
Features designated as contributing shall meet one or more of the following
criteria:	(1)	adds to the Historic architectural qualities or Historic
associations for which a property is significant because it was present during
the period of significance, and possesses Historic integrity reflecting its
character at that time; or	(2)	owing to its unique location or singular physical
characteristics, represents an established feature of the neighborhood,
community or city; or 	(3)	retaining the building, structure, Landscaping, or
Natural Feature, would contribute to the preservation and protection of an
Historic place or area of Historic interest in the City.	(d)	Modification of a
Previously Certified Historic Resources Survey. The City Council, City Planning
Commission, or Director may find that a previously certified Historic Resource
Survey needs to be modified, and may call for a revision, re-survey, or partial
re-survey to a previously certified survey.  Modifications, including boundary
changes, re-surveys, partial re-surveys, and minor corrections of a previously
certified Historic Resources Survey shall be processed as follows:	(1)	Revisions
involving a boundary change, expansion, or contraction of a Preservation Zone
shall be certified by the Cultural Heritage Commission as to the accuracy of the
survey, and shall be forwarded to the City Planning Commission and the City
Council for final approval.	(2)	Revisions involving a re-survey or partial
re-survey of an existing Preservation Zone shall be certified by the Cultural
Heritage Commission as to the accuracy of the survey, and shall be forwarded to
the City Planning Commission for final approval.	(3)	The correction of technical
errors and omissions in a previously certified Historic Resource Survey can be
made by the Director based on input from the Cultural Heritage
Commission.	4.	Approval Process.	(a)	Cultural Heritage Commission
Determination.  The Cultural Heritage Commission shall certify each Historic
Resources Survey as to its accuracy and completeness, and  the establishment of
or change in boundaries of a Preservation Zone upon (1) a majority vote and (2)
a written finding that structures, Landscaping, and Natural Features within the
Preservation Zone meet one or more of criteria (1) through (3), inclusive, in
Subdivision 3.(c) of Subsection F. within 45 days from the date of the
submission to the Commission. This time limit may be extended for a specified
further time period if the Cultural Heritage Commission requests an extension,
in writing, from the City Planning Commission.  Upon action, or failure to act,
the Cultural Heritage Commission shall transmit their determination, comments,
and any related files to the City Planning Commission for
recommendation.	(b)	City Planning Commission Approval.  The City Planning
Commission shall make its report and recommendation to approve, approve with
changes, or disapprove the consideration to establish, repeal, or change the
boundaries of a Preservation Zone, pursuant to Section 12.32 C. of this Code. 
In granting approval, the City Planning Commission shall find that the proposed
boundaries are appropriate and make the findings of contribution required in
Subsection F.3.(c).  The City Planning Commission shall also carefully consider
the Historic Resources Survey and the determination of the Cultural Heritage
Commission.  The Director and the City Planning Commission may recommend
conditions to be included in the initial Preservation Plan for a specific
Preservation Zone, as appropriate to further the purpose of this
section.	(c)	City Council.  Pursuant to Section 12.32 C.7. of this Code, the
City Council may approve or disapprove the establishment, repeal, or change in
the boundaries of a Preservation Zone.  The City Council may require that a
specific Preservation Zone does not take effect until a Preservation Plan for
the Preservation Zone is first approved by the City Planning
Commission.	G.	Review of Projects in Historic Preservation Overlay Zones.  All
Projects within Preservation Zones, except as exempted in Subsection H., shall
be submitted in conjunction with an application, if necessary, to the Department
of City Planning upon a form provided for that purpose.  Upon receipt of an
application, the Director shall review a request and find whether the Project
requires a Certificate of Appropriateness, pursuant to Subsection K.; a
Certificate of Compatibility, pursuant to Subsection L.; or is eligible for
review under Conforming Work on Contributing Elements, pursuant to Subsection
I.; or Conforming Work on Non-Contributing Elements, pursuant to Subsection
J.	H.	Exemptions.  The provisions of this ordinance shall not apply to the
following:	1.	The correction of Emergency or Hazardous Conditions where the
Department of Building and Safety, Housing Department, or other enforcement
agency has determined that emergency or hazardous conditions currently exist and
the emergency or hazardous conditions must be corrected in the interest of the
public health, safety and welfare.  When feasible, the Department of Building
and Safety, Housing Department, or other enforcement agency should consult with
the Director on how to correct the hazardous condition, consistent with the
goals of the Preservation Zone.  However, any other work shall comply with the
provisions of this section.	2.	Department of  Public Works improvements
located, in whole or in part, within a Preservation Zone, where the Director
finds:	(a)	That the certified Historic Resources Survey for the Preservation
Zone does not identify any Contributing Elements located within the Right-of-Way
and/or where the Right-of- Way is not specifically addressed in the approved
Preservation Plan for the Preservation Zone; and	(b)	Where the Department of
Public Works has completed the CEQA review of the proposed improvement, and the
review has determined that the improvement is exempt from CEQA, or will have no
potentially significant environmental impacts.The relevant Board shall be
notified of the Project, given a description of the Project, and an opportunity
to comment.	3.	Work authorized by an approved Historical Property Contract by
the City Council, or	4.	Where a building, structure, Landscaping, Natural
Feature or Lot has been designated as a City Historic-Cultural Monument by the
City Council, unless proposed for demolition.However, those properties with
Federal or State historic designation which are not designated as City
Historic-Cultural Monuments or do not have a City Historical Property Contract
are not exempt from review under this ordinance.  	5.	Where the type of work
has been specifically deemed Exempt from review as set forth in the approved
Preservation Plan for a specific Preservation Zone.	I.	Conforming Work on
Contributing Elements.  Conforming Work on Contributing Elements includes
Restoration work, Maintenance and Repair, Additions of less than 250 square feet
with no increase in height and which are not located within the front yard or
street-side yard, and demolition taken in response to natural disaster.
Conforming Work meeting the criteria set forth in this subsection shall not
require a Certificate of Appropriateness for Contributing Elements pursuant to
Subsection K.	1.	Procedure.  Pursuant to Subsection G., the Director shall
forward applications for Conforming Work on Contributing Elements to the Board
for conformance review and sign off.  The Board may delegate its review
authority to the Director of Planning as specified in the Preservation Plan
approved for the Preservation Zone.	2.	Review Criteria.  A request for
Conforming Work on Contributing Elements shall be reviewed for conformity with
the Preservation Plan for the Preservation Zone, or if none exists, the
Secretary of Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for
Rehabilitating Historic Buildings, and at least one of following 
conditions:	(a)	Where the building, structure, Landscaping, or Natural Feature
within the Preservation Zone is being restored to its original appearance;
or	(b)	Where a building, structure, Landscaping, or Natural Feature within a
Preservation Zone has been damaged by fire, earthquake or other natural disaster
to the extent that it cannot be repaired or restored with reasonable diligence
and where demolition of the structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature or Lot is
being requested (subject to the provisions of Public Resources Code Section
5028, where applicable);	(c)	Where Maintenance or Repair work is undertaken with
respect to any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature or lot, or the
work does not require the issuance of a building permit, pursuant to Section
91.106.2 of this Code; or	(d)	Where the Project consists of an Addition of less
than 250 square feet to any building, structure, the Addition is not located
within the front yard or street-side yard, and no increase in height is
proposed. 	3.	Time to Act.  The Board shall act on the request for Conforming
Work on Contributing Elements at its next agendized Board meeting within 21 days
of the Director deeming an application complete, unless the applicant and the
Director mutually agree in writing to an extension of time.  The applicant may
request a transfer of jurisdiction to the Director if the Board fails to act
within 21 days.  Applications reviewed under Conforming Work shall be agendized
by the Board. 	4.	Certification.  The Board shall review and sign off a
request for Conforming Work on Contributing Elements if it finds that the work
meets the criteria as set forth in Subdivision 2., above.  The Board does not
have the authority to impose conditions on Conforming Work.  If the Board finds
that the work does not meet the criteria, as set forth in Subdivision 2., above,
it shall specify in writing as to why.	5.	If an application fails to conform to
the criteria of Conforming Work on Contributing Elements, an applicant may elect
to file for review under the Certificate of Appropriateness procedure pursuant
to Subsection K.	J.	Conforming Work on Non-Contributing Elements.  Conforming
Work on Non-Contributing Elements includes work undertaken on any building,
structure, Natural Feature, lot, or Landscaping, that is not listed as a
Contributing Element in the Historic Resources Survey, or that is not listed in
the Historic Resources Survey; except that,  the construction of a new building
or building replacement, or the demolition of buildings or structures not listed
as Contributing Elements shall not qualify as conforming work on Non-
Contributing Elements.  The relocation of buildings or structures dating from
the Preservation Zone’s period of significance onto a lot designated as a
Non-Contributing Element in a Preservation Zone, are eligible for review under
Conforming Work on Non-Contributors.	1.	Procedure.  Pursuant to Subsection G.,
the Director shall forward  applications for Conforming Work on
Non-Contributing Elements to the Board for conformance review and sign off. 
The Board may delegate its review authority to the Director as specified in the
Preservation Plan approved for the Preservation Zone.	2.	Review Criteria.  A
request for Conforming Work on Non-Contributing Elements shall be signed off by
the Board if they find:  the work involves the relocation of buildings or
structures dating from the Preservation Zone’s period of significance onto a
lot in the Preservation Zone; or the work is undertaken solely on a feature
within the Preservation Zone that is identified as Non-Contributing in the
Historic Resources Survey, or not listed in the Historic Resources Survey, and
the work does not involve the construction of a new building, building
replacement or demolition.	3.	Time to Act.  The Board shall act on a request
for Conforming Work on Non- Contributing Elements at its next agendized Board
meeting within 21 days of the Director deeming an application complete, unless
the applicant and the Director mutually agree in writing to an extension of
time.  The applicant may request a transfer of jurisdiction to the Director if
the Board fails to act within the specified time.  Applications reviewed under
Conforming Work shall be agendized by the Board.	4.	Certification.  The Board
shall review and sign off a request for Conforming Work on Non-Contributing
Elements if it finds that the work meets the criteria as set forth in
Subdivision 2., above.  The Board does not have the authority to impose
conditions on Conforming Work.  If the Board finds that the work does not meet
the criteria, as set forth in Subdivision 2., above, it shall specify in writing
as to why.	5.	If an application fails to conform to the criteria of Conforming
Work on Non- Contributing Elements, an applicant may elect to file for review
under the Certificate of Compatibility procedure pursuant to Subsection
L.	K.	Certificate of Appropriateness for Contributing Elements.	1.	Purpose.  It
is the intent of this section to require the issuance of a Certificate of
Appropriateness for any Project affecting a Contributing Element, except as set
forth in Subdivision 2.(b), below.  It is the further intent of this section to
require a Certificate of Appropriateness for some Projects which may, or may
not, require a building permit, including, but not limited to, changing exterior
paint color, removal of significant trees or Landscaping, installation or
removal of fencing, window and door replacement which are character-defining
features of architectural styles, changes to public spaces and similar
Projects.  However, an applicant not approved under Subsection I. may elect to
file for a Certificate of Appropriateness.	2.	Requirements.	(a)	Prohibition. 
No person shall construct, add to, alter, demolish, relocate or remove any
building, structure, Landscaping, or Natural Feature designated as contributing
in the Historic Resources Survey for a Preservation Zone unless a Certificate of
Appropriateness has been approved for that action pursuant to this section, with
the exception of Conforming Work on Contributing Elements, which shall not
require a Certificate of Appropriateness.  No Certificate of Appropriateness
shall be approved unless the plans for the construction, demolition, Alteration,
Addition, relocation, or removal conform with the provisions of this section. 
Any approval, conditional approval, or denial shall include written findings in
support.	(b)	Conforming Work.  Nothing in this section shall be construed as to
require a Certificate of Appropriateness for the ordinary Maintenance and Repair
of any exterior architectural feature of a property within a Preservation Zone,
which does not involve a change in design, material, color, or outward
appearance.  Work meeting the criteria for Conforming Work on Contributing
Elements shall not require a Certificate of Appropriateness.	3.	Procedures For
Obtaining A Certificate of Appropriateness.	(a)	Any plan for the construction,
Addition, Alteration, demolition, Reconstruction, relocation or removal of a
building, structure, Landscaping, or Natural Feature, or any combination
designated as contributing in the Historic Resources Survey for a Preservation
Zone shall be submitted, in conjunction with an application, to the Department
of City Planning upon a form provided for that purpose.  Upon an application
being deemed complete by the Director, one copy each of the application and
relevant documents shall be mailed by the Department of City Planning to both
the Cultural Heritage Commission and to each Boardmember for the Preservation
Zone for evaluation.	(b)	Cultural Heritage Commission and Board
Recommendations.  After notice and hearing pursuant to Subsection M. below, the
Cultural Heritage Commission and the Board shall submit its recommendation to
the Director as to whether the Certificate should be approved, conditionally
approved or disapproved.  In the event that the Cultural Heritage Commission or
Board does not submit its recommendations within 30 days of the postmarked date
of mailing of the application from the City Planning Department, the Cultural
Heritage Commission or Board shall be deemed to have forfeited all jurisdiction
in the matter and the Certificate may be approved, conditionally approved or
disapproved as filed.  The applicant and the Director may mutually agree in
writing to a longer period of time for the Board to act.	(c)	Director and Area
Planning Commission Determination.  The Director shall have the authority to
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove a Certificate of Appropriateness
for construction, Addition, Alteration or Reconstruction.  The Area Planning
Commissions shall have the jurisdiction to approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove a Certificate of Appropriateness for demolition, removal or
relocation.	(d)	Time to Act.  The Director or Area Planning Commission,
whichever has jurisdiction, shall render a determination on any Certificate of
Appropriateness within 75 days of an application being deemed complete, unless
the applicant and the Director mutually consent in writing to a longer period. 
A copy of the determination shall be mailed to the applicant, the Board, the
Cultural Heritage Commission and any other interested parties.  No Certificate
of Appropriateness shall be issued until the appeal period, as set forth in
Subsection N. has expired or until any appeal has been resolved. 	(e)	Other
City Approvals.  The requirements for a Certificate of Appropriateness are in
Addition to other City approvals (building permits, variances, etc.) or other
legal requirements, such as Public Resources Code Section 5028, which may be
required.  The time periods specified above may be extended if necessary with
the written mutual consent of the applicant and the Director.	4.	Standards for
Issuance of Certificate of Appropriateness for Construction, Addition,
Alteration, or Reconstruction.  The Director shall base a determination whether
to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove a Certificate of Appropriateness
for construction, Addition, Alteration or Reconstruction on each of the
following:	(a)	If no Preservation Plan exists; whether the Project complies with
Standards for Rehabilitation approved by the United States Secretary of the
Interior considering the following factors:	(1)	architectural
design; 	(2)	height, bulk, and massing of buildings and structures;	(3)	lot
coverage and orientation of buildings;	(4)	color and texture of surface
materials;	(5)	grading and site development;	(6)	Landscaping;	(7)	changes to
Natural Features;	(8)	antennas, satellite dishes and solar
collectors;	(9)	off-street parking;	(10)	light fixtures and street
furniture;	(11)	steps, walls, fencing, doors, windows, screens and security
grills;	(12)	yards and setbacks; or	(13)	signs; and	(b)	Whether the Project
protects and preserves the Historic and architectural qualities and the physical
characteristics which make the building, structure, landscape, or Natural
Feature a Contributing Element of the Preservation Zone; or	(c)	If a
Preservation Plan exists; whether the Project complies with the Preservation
Plan approved by the City Planning Commission for the Preservation
Zone.	5.	Standards for Issuance of Certificate of Appropriateness for
Demolition, Removal or Relocation.  Any person proposing to demolish, remove or
relocate any contributing building, structure, Landscaping, or Natural Feature
within a Preservation Zone not qualifying as Conforming Work on Contributing
Elements shall apply for a Certificate of Appropriateness and the appropriate
environmental review.No Certificate of Appropriateness shall be issued to
demolish, remove or relocate any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural
Feature or Lot within a Preservation Zone that is designated as a Contributing
Element and the application shall be denied unless the Owner can demonstrate to
the Area Planning Commission that the Owner would be deprived of all
economically viable use of the property.  In making its determination, the Area
Planning Commission shall consider any evidence presented concerning the
following:	(a)	An opinion regarding the structural soundness of the structure
and its suitability for continued use, renovation, Restoration or Rehabilitation
from a licensed engineer or architect who meets the Secretary of the
Interior’s Professional Qualification Standards as established by the Code of
Federal Regulation, 36 CFR Part 61.  This opinion shall based on the Secretary
of the Interior’s Standards for Architectural and Engineering Documentation
with Guidelines;	(b)	An estimate of the cost of the proposed Alteration,
construction, demolition, or removal and an estimate of any additional cost that
would be incurred to comply with the recommendation of the Board for changes
necessary for it to be approved;	(c)	An estimate of the market value of the
property in its current condition; after completion of the proposed Alteration,
construction, demolition, or removal; after any expenditure necessary to comply
with the recommendation of the Board for changes necessary for the Area Planning
Commission to approve a Certificate of Appropriateness; and, in the case of a
proposed demolition, after renovation of the existing structure for continued
use;	(d)	In the case of a proposed demolition, an estimate from architects,
developers, real estate consultants, appraisers, or other real estate
professionals experienced in Rehabilitation as to the economic feasibility of
Restoration, renovation or Rehabilitation of any existing structure or
objects.  This shall include tax incentives and any special funding sources, or
government incentives which may be available.	L.	Certificate of Compatibility
for Non-Contributing Elements.	1.	Purpose. The construction of a new building or
structure on a lot designated as a Non-Contributing Element, the replacement of
existing Non-Contributing Elements, the relocation of buildings or structures
not dating from the Preservation Zone’s period of significance onto a lot
designated as a Non-Contributing Element, and the demolition of any building or
structure on a lot designated as a Non-Contributing Element, shall require a
Certificate of Compatibility to assure compatibility with the character of the
Preservation Zone and to assure that the construction or demolition work is
undertaken in a manner that does not impair the essential form and integrity of
the Historic character of its environment.  An applicant not approved under
Subsection J may elect to file for a Certificate of Compatibility.Other types of
work solely involving Non-Contributing Elements, including the relocation of
buildings or structures dating from the Preservation Zone’s period of
significance onto a lot designated as a Non-Contributing Element, are eligible
for review under Conforming Work on Non-Contributors as set forth in Subsection
J.  The Director shall review a request, pursuant to Subsection G. and find
whether the application is eligible for Conforming Work on Non- Contributors as
outlined in Subsection J. or requires a Certificate of
Compatibility.	2.	Prohibition.  No person shall construct a new building or
structure on a lot designated as a Non-Contributing Element, replace any
existing building or structure designated as a Non-Contributing Element or not
listed in the Historic Resources Survey for the Preservation Zone or demolish
any building or structure on a lot designated as a Non- Contributing Element
unless a Certificate of Compatibility has been approved for that action pursuant
to this section.  No Certificate of Compatibility shall be approved unless the
plans for construction, replacement or demolition conforms with the provisions
of this section.  Any approval, conditional approval, or denial shall include
written findings in support.	3.	Procedures For Obtaining A Certificate of
Compatibility.	(a)	Any plan for the construction of a new building or structure
on a lot designated as a Non-Contributing Element, the replacement of existing 
Non-Contributing Elements, the relocation of buildings or structures not dating
from the Preservation Zone’s period of significance onto a lot designated as a
Non-Contributing Element, or the demolition of any building or structure on a
lot designated as a Non-Contributing Element, shall be submitted, in conjunction
with an application, to the Department of City Planning upon a form provided for
that purpose.  Upon an application being deemed complete by the Director, one
copy of the application and relevant documents shall be mailed by the Department
of City Planning to each Boardmember of the Preservation Zone for
evaluation.	(b)	Board Recommendation.  After notice and hearing pursuant to
Subsection M. below, the Board shall submit its recommendation to the Director
as to whether the Certificate of Compatibility should be approved, conditionally
approved, or disapproved within 30 days of the postmarked date of mailing of the
application from the City Planning Department.  In the event the Board does not
submit its recommendation within 30 days, the Board shall forfeit all
jurisdiction. The applicant and the Director may mutually agree in writing to a
longer period of time for the Board to act.	(c)	Director Determination.  The
Director shall have the authority to approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove a Certificate of Compatibility for the construction of a new building
or structure on a lot designated as a Non-Contributing Element, the replacement
of existing  Non-Contributing Elements, the relocation of buildings or
structures not dating from the Preservation Zone’s period of significance onto
a lot designated as a Non-Contributing Element, or the demolition of any
building or structure on a lot designated as a Non-Contributing
Element.	(d)	Time to Act.  The Director shall render a determination on a
Certificate of Compatibility within 75 days of an application being deemed
complete, unless the applicant and the Director mutually consent in writing to a
longer period.  A copy of the determination shall be mailed to the applicant,
the Board, and any other interested parties.  No Certificate of Compatibility
shall be issued until the appeal period, as set forth in Subsection N., has
expired or until any appeal has been resolved.	(e)	Other City Approvals.  The
requirements for a Certificate of Compatibility are in addition to other City
approvals (building permits, variances, etc.) and other legal requirements, such
as Public Resources Code Section 5028, which may be required.  The time periods
specified above may be extended if necessary with the written mutual consent of
the applicant and the Director.	4.	Standards for Issuance of Certificate of
Compatibility  for New Building Construction or Replacement, and the Relocation
of Buildings or Structures Not Dating from the Preservation Zone’s Period of
Significance Onto a Lot Designated as a Non- Contributing Element.  The
Director shall base a determination whether to approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove a Certificate of Compatibility on each of the following:	(a)	If no
Preservation Plan exists; whether the following aspects of the Project do not
impair the essential form and integrity of the Historic character of its
surrounding built environment, considering the following
factors;	(1)	architectural design;	(2)	height, bulk, and massing of buildings
and structures;	(3)	lot coverage and orientation of buildings;	(4)	color and
texture of surface materials;	(5)	grading and lot
development;	(6)	Landscaping;	(7)	changes to Natural Features;	(8)	steps, walls,
fencing, doors, windows, screens, and security grills;	(9)	yards and
setbacks;	(10)	off street parking;	(11)	light fixtures and street
furniture;	(12)	antennas, satellite dishes and solar collectors;
or	(13)	signs.New construction shall not destroy Historic features or materials
that characterize the property.  The design of new construction shall subtly
differentiate the new construction from the surrounding Historic built fabric,
and shall be contextually compatible with the massing, size, scale, and
architectural features of nearby structures in the Preservation Zone;
or	(b)	whether the Project complies with the Preservation Plan approved by the
City Planning Commission for the Preservation Zone.	5.	Certificates of
Compatiblity for the Demolition of Non-Contributing Elements.  After notice and
hearing pursuant to Subsection M. below, the Board shall submit its comments on
a request to demolish a Non-Contributing Element, considering the impact(s) of
the demolition of the Non-Contributing Element to the essential form and
integrity of the Historic character of its surrounding built environment within
30 days of the postmarked date of mailing of the application from the City
Planning Department.  In the event the Board does not submit its comment within
30 days, the Board shall forfeit all jurisdiction.  The applicant and the
Director may mutually agree in writing to a longer period of time for the Board
to comment.	M.	Notice and Public Hearing.  Before making its recommendation to
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove an application pursuant to this
section for a Certificate of Appropriateness or Certificate of Compatibility,
the Board shall hold a public hearing on the matter.  The applicant shall
notify the Owners and occupants of all properties abutting, across the street or
alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property at least ten
days prior to the date of the hearing.  Notice of the public hearing shall be
posted by the applicant in a conspicuous place on the subject property at least
ten days prior to the date of the public hearing.	(1)	A copy of the Board’s
recommendation pursuant to Subsection K.3.(b) regarding a Certificate of
Appropriateness or Subsection L.3.(b) regarding a Certificate of Compatibility
shall be sent to the Director.	(2)	A copy of the final determination by the
Director, or Area Planning Commission shall be mailed to the Board, to the
Cultural Heritage Commission, to the applicant, and to other interested
parties.	N.	Appeals.  For any application for a Certificate of Appropriateness
pursuant to Subsection K. or a Certificate of Compatibility pursuant to
Subsection L., the action of the Director or the Area Planning Commission shall
be deemed to be final unless appealed.  No Certificate of Appropriateness or
Certificate of Compatibility, shall be deemed approved or issued until the time
period for appeal has expired.	(1)	An initial decision of the Director is
appealable to the Area Planning Commission.	(2)	An initial decision by the Area
Planning Commission is appealable to the City Council.	An appeal may be filed by
the applicant or any aggrieved party.  An appeal may also be filed by the Mayor
or a member of the City Council.  Unless a Board member is an applicant, he or
she may not appeal any initial decision of the Director or Area Planning
Commission as it pertains to this section.  An appeal shall be filed at the
public counter of the Planning Department within 15 days of the date of the
decision to approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the application for
Certificate of Appropriateness or Certificate of Compatibility.  The appeal
shall set forth specifically how the petitioner believes the findings and
decision are in error.  An appeal shall be filed in triplicate, and the
Planning Department shall forward a copy to the Board and the Cultural Heritage
Commission.  The appellate body may grant, conditionally grant or deny the
appeal.  Before acting on any appeal, the appellate body shall set the matter
for hearing, giving a minimum of 15 days notice to the applicant, the appellant,
the Cultural Heritage Commission, the relevant Board and any other interested
parties of record.  The failure of the appellate body to act upon an appeal
within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal period or within an additional
period as may be agreed upon by the applicant and the appellate body shall be
deemed a denial of the appeal and the original action on the matter shall become
final.	O.	Authority of Cultural Heritage Commission not Affected. 
Notwithstanding any provisions of this section, nothing here shall be construed
as superseding or overriding the Cultural Heritage Commission’s authority as
provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 22.132 and
22.133.	P.	Publicly Owned Property.  The provisions of this section shall apply
to any building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature or lot within a
Preservation Zone which is owned or leased by a public entity to the extent
permitted by law.	Q.	Enforcement.  The Department of Building and Safety, the
Housing Department, or any successor agencies, whichever has jurisdiction, shall
make all inspections of properties which are in violation of this section when
apprized that work has been done or is required to be done pursuant to a
building permit.  Violations, the correction of which do not require a building
permit, shall be investigated and resolved jointly by the Planning Department,
the Department of Building and Safety, the Housing Department, or any successor
agencies, whichever has jurisdiction, and if a violation is found, the Planning
Department may then request the Department of Building and Safety, the Housing
Department or any successor agencies to issue appropriate orders for
compliance.  Any person who has failed to comply with the provisions of this
section shall be subject to the provisions of Section 11.00 (m) of this Code. 
The Owner of the property in violation shall be assessed a minimum inspection
fee, as specified in Section 98.0412 of this Code for each site
inspection.	R.	Injunctive Relief.  Where it appears that the Owner, occupant or
person in charge of a building, structure, Landscaping, Natural Feature, lot or
area within a Preservation Zone threatens, permits, is about to do or is doing
any work or activity in violation of this section, the City Attorney may
forthwith apply to an appropriate court for a temporary restraining order,
preliminary or permanent injunction, or other or further relief as appears
appropriate.	S.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)
	SEC. 12.21.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.	A.	Use.	1.	Conformance and Permits
Required.	(a)	Permits and Licenses. No building or structure shall be erected,
reconstructed, structurally altered, enlarged, moved, or maintained, nor shall
any building, structure, or land be used or designed to be used for any use
other than is permitted in the zone in which such building, structure, or land
is located and then only after applying for and securing all permits and
licenses required by all laws and ordinances. (Amended by Ord. No. 131,319, Eff.
1/16/66.)	(b)	Flexible Units. Whenever a layout within any dwelling unit or
guest room is designed with multiple hallway entrances, multiple toilet and bath
facilities or bar sink installations, so that it can be easily divided into or
used for separate apartments or guest rooms, the lot area requirements and the
automobile parking requirements shall be based upon the highest possible number
of dwelling units or guest rooms obtainable from any such arrangement. (Amended
by Ord. No. 149,118, Eff. 2/5/77.)	2.	Other Use and Yard Determinations by the
Zoning Administrator.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)  The 
Zoning Administrator shall have authority to determine other uses, in addition
to those specifically listed in this article, which may be permitted in each of
the various zones, when in his or her judgment, the other uses are similar to
and no more objectionable to the public welfare than those listed.	The Zoning
Administrator shall also have authority to interpret zoning regulations when the
meaning of the regulation is not clear, either in general or as it apples to a
specific property or situation.	Anyone aggrieved by the Zoning Administrator’s
determination may file an appeal within 15 days from the issuance of the written
decision.	The City Planning Commission shall hear appeals on Zoning
Administrator Interpretations where there is no site specific issue.  The Area
Planning Commission shall hear appeals on site specific Zoning Administrator
Interpretations.  In no instance, however, shall the Zoning Administrator
determine, nor shall these regulations be so interpreted, that a use may be
permitted in a zone when that use is specifically listed as first permissible in
a less restrictive zone; e.g., a use listed in the C2 Zone shall not be
permitted in the C1 Zone, or in a more restricted designation associated with a
Pedestrian Oriented District or Specific Plan.	The Zoning Administrator shall
also have authority to adopt general interpretations determining the proper
application of the yard regulations to groups of lots located in hillside
districts or affected by common problems.	3.	Zone Group Classification. 
Whenever the terms A Zone, R Zone, C Zone, or M Zone are used in this article,
they shall be deemed to refer to all zones containing the same letters in their
title; provided, however, the term A zone shall include the RA Zone, the term R
Zone shall include the RD, RE, RS, RW, RU, RZ, and RMP Zones, the term C Zone
shall include the CR, CM and the CM(GM) Zones, and the term M Zone shall include
the MR Zones.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,103, Eff. 11/21/93.) 	4.	Off-Street
Automobile Parking Requirements.  A garage or an off-street automobile parking
area shall be provided in connection with and at the time of the erection of
each of the buildings or structures hereinafter specified, or at the time such
buildings or structures are altered, enlarged, converted or increased in
capacity by the addition of dwelling units, guest rooms, beds for institutions,
floor area or seating capacity.  The parking space capacity required in said
garage or parking area shall be determined by the amount of dwelling units,
guest rooms, beds for institutions, floor area or seats so provided, and said
garage or parking area shall be maintained thereafter in connection with such
buildings or structures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 145,088, Eff. 10/18/72.)	(a)	For
Dwelling Units.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,354, Eff. 1/31/05.)  In all zones,
there shall be at least two automobile parking spaces on the same lot with each
one-family dwelling thereon, and in any RW Zone there shall be at least two
automobile parking spaces per dwelling unit which shall be upon the same lot
with the dwelling unit.  However, for small lot subdivisions approved pursuant
to Article 7 of this Chapter in conformity with the provisions of Section 12.22
C.27. of this Code, the required parking spaces shall not be required to be
located on the same lot with each dwelling unit, but shall be provided within
the boundaries of the parcel or tract map.  The ratio of parking spaces
required for all other dwelling units shall be at least one parking space for
each dwelling unit of less than three habitable rooms, one and one-half parking
spaces for each dwelling unit of three habitable rooms, and two parking spaces
for each dwelling unit of more than three habitable rooms.  Where the lot is
located in an RA, RE, RS, R1, RU, RZ, RMP, or RW Zone, the required parking
spaces shall be provided within a private garage.  Where the lot is located in
an R2 Zone, at least one of the required parking spaces per dwelling unit shall
be provided within a private garage.  Any door or doors installed at the
automobile entry to a garage serving a one or two-family dwelling where one or
more required parking spaces is located shall be of conventional design
constructed so as to permit the simultaneous entry of automobiles into each
required parking space without damaging the door or door frame and constructed
so as to permit the flow of air through the automobile entry when the door is in
the fully closed position.	The above area requirements shall not apply to
mobilehomes parks or mobilehomes located with in mobilehome parks. Mobilehome
parks are subject to the requirements of Title 25 of the California
Administrative Code.	(b)	For Guest Rooms.  Automobile parking spaces shall be
provided in the following ratio for the guest rooms included within any
building:  (Amended by Ord. No. 129,334, Eff. 2/28/65.)	(1)	One parking space
for each individual guest room or suite of rooms for the first 30;	(2)	One
additional parking space for each two guest rooms or suites of rooms in excess
of 30 but not exceeding 60; and	(3)	One additional parking space for each three
guest rooms or suites of rooms in excess of 60.	(c)	For Commercial and
Industrial Buildings.  Except as otherwise provided in Subparagraphs (1)
through and including (7) below, there shall be at least one automobile parking
space for each 500 square feet of combined floor area contained within all the
office, business, commercial, research and development buildings, and
manufacturing or industrial buildings on any lot.  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	A specific plan may impose less restrictive parking
requirements, if it expressly states that the specific plan’s parking
provisions are intended to supersede the standards set forth in this
paragraph.	In the case of buildings where bicycle parking spaces are required by
Subdivision 16. of this subsection, the minimum number of required automobile
parking spaces may be reduced by the same number as the number of bicycle spaces
required for the building.  (Added by Ord. No. 167,409, Eff.
12/19/91.)	(1)	Warehouse: Where a building or portion thereof is designed,
arranged or used as a warehouse including storage buildings for household goods
and has a gross floor area in excess of 10,000 square feet, in addition to the
one automobile parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area for the
first 10,000 square feet, only one parking space need be provided for each 5,000
square feet of floor area in excess of the first 10,000 square feet contained in
such warehouse. Such warehouse may not be changed to another use unless
additional parking space is provided to meet the requirements contained herein
for such other uses.	(2)	Health Clubs: There shall be at least one automobile
parking space for each 100 square feet of floor area in the building being
utilized for a health club, athletic club, bath house, gymnasium, dance studio,
dance hall, or any similar establishment, which operates as a private facility
or offers the use of the premises and equipment to the general public for
physical exercise, dance or sports activities. This provision does not include
such a facility located in a building which is accessory to an elementary
school, junior high school or senior high school as defined in Section 12.03 of
this article or any other institution of learning under the jurisdiction of the
State Department of Education. This provision does not include such a facility
located within an office building of at least 50,000 square feet or more of
gross floor area, or located within the Downtown Business District parking
exception area described in Paragraph (i) of this subdivision.	(3)	Restaurants
and Bars, General: There shall be at least one automobile parking space for each
100 square feet of gross floor area included within the total square footage of
any restaurant, cafe, coffee shop, tea room, fast food establishment, bar, night
club, or any similar establishment, which dispenses food or refreshments or
provides dancing or live entertainment. This requirement shall only apply to an
establishment which has a gross floor area greater than 1,000 square feet. An
establishment which provides no seating and exclusively dispenses food or
refreshments to be eaten off the premises is not included in this definition and
shall instead meet the requirement for general retail uses.	(4)	Restaurant,
Small: If a restaurant, cafe, coffee shop, or other dining establishment has a
gross floor area of 1,000 square feet or less, then it need provide only one
automobile parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area. However,
if such an establishment has a separate bar, or provides dancing or live
entertainment, then additional parking shall be provided to meet the
requirements for general restaurants set forth in Subparagraph (3) of this
paragraph.	(5)	Retail Stores, General:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff.
7/6/01.)  Retail establishments and discount wholesalers selling to the general
public, shall provide at least four automobile parking spaces for each 1,000
square feet of gross floor area.	(6)	Retail, Furniture Stores: Furniture stores,
major appliance stores, or similar establishments shall provide at least one
automobile parking space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area.	(7)	Trade
Schools: Trade schools, business colleges, professional or scientific schools,
music schools, chiropractic schools, or any similar commercial school shall
provide at least one automobile parking space for each 50 square feet of floor
area contained within classrooms and assembly areas, or one parking space for
each five fixed seats contained within classrooms and assembly areas, whichever
provides the greater number of parking spaces. This does not include classroom
area where heavy equipment is used in conjunction with training, which shall
instead provide at least one parking space for each 500 square feet of floor
area.	(d)	For Institutions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 145,088, Eff. 10/18/73.) 
There shall be at least one automobile parking space for each 500 square feet of
floor area contained within any philanthropic institution, governmental office
building, or similar use. Institutions which provide medical services, such as
hospitals, sanitariums, convalescent homes, clinics, medical office buildings
and other medical service facilities shall make the following provisions for
off-street automobile parking.	(1)	Hospitals shall provide 2.0 automobile
parking spaces for each patient bed for which the hospital is
licensed.	(2)	Sanitariums and convalescent homes shall provide one automobile
parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area, or 0.2 automobile parking
spaces per patient bed, for which the facility is licensed, whichever provides
the greater number of automobile parking spaces.	(3)	Clinics, as defined in
Health and Safety Code Section 1202, medical office buildings and other medical
service facilities shall provide one automobile parking space per 200 square
feet of total floor area.	(4)	Any institution providing a mixture of medical
services, such as a combined hospital/clinic facility, shall meet the
requirements for automobile parking spaces as if each portion of the facility
were an independent entity.	(5)	(Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.) 
Any Eldercare Facility shall meet the following requirements for automobile
parking spaces for each housing type within the facility.
  
    
      
        Housing Type
      
      
        Required Parking For Each Housing Type (whether or not included within
an Eldercare Facility)
      
    
    
      
        Senior Independent Housing
      
      
        1 automobile parking space for each dwelling unit
      
    
    
      
        Assisted Living Care Housing
      
      
        1 automobile parking space for each dwelling unit or 1 automobile
parking space for each guest room
      
    
    
      
        Skilled Nursing Care Housing
      
      
        0.2 automobile parking space for each guest bed
      
    
    
      
        Alzheimer’s/Dementia Care Housing
      
      
        0.2 automobile parking space for each guest bed
      
    
  	(e)	For Auditoriums. There shall be at least one automobile parking space for
each five seats contained within any theatre, church, high school, college or
university auditorium, or general auditorium, stadium or other similar place of
assembly. Where there are no fixed seats in the auditorium or place of assembly,
there shall be one parking space for each 35 square feet of floor area
(exclusive of stage) contained therein.	(f)	For Elementary Schools. There shall
be one automobile parking space on the same lot with each classroom contained in
any elementary school.	(g)	Location of Parking Area. The automobile parking
spaces required by Paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) hereof, shall be provided
either on the same lot as the use for which they are intended to serve or on
another lot not more than 750 feet distant therefrom; said distance to be
measured horizontally along the streets between the two lots, except that where
the parking area is located adjacent to an alley, public walk or private
easement which is easily usable for pedestrian travel between the parking area
and the use it is to serve, the 750-foot distance may be measured along said
alley, walk or easement. (Amended by Ord. No. 145,088, Eff.
10/18/73.)	(h)	Access Driveways. An access driveway shall be provided and
maintained between each automobile parking space or area and a street, or alley,
or a private street or easement approved in accordance with the provisions of
Article 8 of this chapter. Such access driveway shall be located entirely on the
lot which it serves. However, an access driveway need not be located entirely on
the same lot as the dwelling and parking space it serves if the driveway lot and
dwelling existed on September 6, 1961, and additions and alterations may be made
to such dwelling, and accessory buildings may be added on such lot, if no
additional dwelling units or guest rooms are created. (Amended by Ord. No.
142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Operative 2/9/72.)	(i)	Exception Downtown Business
District. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,036, Eff. 9/22/68.) Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this section to the contrary, within that area hereinafter
described, the off-street automobile parking spaces required in connection with
the following buildings, structures or uses shall be located on the same lot or
not more than 1,500 feet therefrom and said spaces shall be provided in the
following ratio:	(1)	For auditoriums and other similar places of assembly, one
space for each 10 fixed seats or one space for each 100 square feet of floor
area (exclusive of stage) where there are no fixed seats;	(2)	For hospitals,
philanthropic institutions, governmental office buildings, and similar uses, at
least one parking space for each 1,000 square feet of floor area.	(3)	For
business, commercial or industrial buildings, having a gross floor area of 7,500
square feet or more, at least one parking space for each 1,000 square feet of
floor area in said building, exclusive of floor areas used for automobile
parking space, for basement storage, or for rooms housing mechanical equipment
incidental to the operation of buildings; provided that, for a warehouse having
a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet or more, in addition to one automobile
parking space for each 1,000 square feet of floor area for the first 10,000
square feet, the automobile parking required for that portion of the warehouse
in excess of the first 10,000 square feet of floor area shall be one space for
each 5,000 square feet. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,557, Eff. 12/26/68.)	This
exception shall apply only to property located within the area bounded by Pico
Boulevard from the Harbor Freeway to Figueroa Street; Figueroa Street from Pico
Boulevard to Venice Boulevard; Venice Boulevard from Figueroa Street to Main
Street; Sixteenth Street from Main Street to Maple Avenue; Maple Avenue from
Sixteenth Street to Olympic Boulevard; Olympic Boulevard from Maple Avenue to
San Julian Street; San Julian Street from Olympic Boulevard to Ninth Street;
Ninth Street from San Julian Street to Gladys Avenue; Olympic Boulevard from
Gladys Avenue to Central Avenue; Central Avenue from Olympic Boulevard to Third
Street; Third Street from Central Avenue to Alameda Street; Alameda Street from
Third Street to Sunset Boulevard; Sunset Boulevard from Alameda Street to North
Broadway; North Broadway from Sunset Boulevard to Temple Street; Temple Street
from North Broadway to Hill Street; Hill Street from Temple Street to First
Street; First Street from Hill Street to the Harbor Freeway; the Harbor Freeway
from First Street to Pico Boulevard. (Amended by Ord. No. 147,460, Eff.
8/31/75.)	(j)	Combination of Uses.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,773, Eff.
5/21/90.)	(1)	Where there is a combination of uses on a lot, the number of
automobile parking spaces required shall be the sum of the requirements of the
various uses, except as provided below.	(2)	If there is office space auxiliary
to a manufacturing, warehouse, or other industrial use on the same lot, the
office use shall have its required parking spaces computed at the same ratio as
the industrial use. However, if the office space exceeds 10 percent of the total
gross floor area of a building, then the balance of the office space in excess
of 10 percent shall have its required spaces computed at the ratio specified for
office use.	(3)	For an office building with a total gross floor area of at least
50,000 square feet, and if the retail space in the building does not exceed five
percent of the total gross floor area, or 15,000 square feet, whichever is the
smaller amount, then any retail space in the building shall have its required
parking spaces computed at the same ratio as the office use.	(k)	Fractional
Space. When the application of these regulations results in the requirement of a
fractional automobile space, any fraction up to and including one-half may be
disregarded and any fraction over one-half shall be construed as requiring one
automobile parking space.	(l)	Use of Passageways. In no event shall the
passageways provided in compliance with the requirements of Subdivision 2. of
Subsection C. of this section be considered as also providing the automobile
parking space or any portion of the parking space required hereby.	(m)	For
Existing Buildings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,110, Eff. 5/29/12.)  Off-street
automobile parking space being maintained in connection with any existing main
building or structure shall be maintained so long as said main building or
structure remains, unless an equivalent substitute number of such spaces are
provided and thereafter maintained conforming to the requirements of this
paragraph; provided, however, that this regulation shall not require the
maintenance of more automobile parking space than is required herein for a new
building or structure identical to said existing building or structure, nor the
maintenance of such space for any type of main building or structure other than
those specified herein.  Further, provided, however, that if a building or
structure constructed after the effective date of this ordinance is of
insufficient floor area at the time of its construction to be required to
provide parking spaces by the requirements of this section, but is subsequently
increased in floor area in such a manner that it would be subject to said
requirements, parking spaces shall then be provided on the basis of the total
resulting floor area.	Exceptions:	(1)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this section to the contrary and for any existing high rise building cited under
Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 91.8604.6.3, the Department of Building and
Safety may reduce the number of required parking spaces by the number of spaces
which the Department of Building and Safety determines are needed to install a
water storage tank to enlarge an existing fire pump room, or to install a new
fire pump room.	(2)	The Department of Building and Safety may reduce the number
of required parking spaces by the number of spaces which the Department of
Building and Safety determines are needed to provide disabled parking spaces as
required by State access laws.	(n)	In no event shall automobile parking space
which is provided for a building or use, as required by this section, be
considered as providing any of the required space for another building or
use.	(o)	Waiver.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
All or a portion of the off-street automobile parking spaces required by this
section may be waived when the lot involved is located within the boundaries of
an assessment district for the acquisition of publicly owned automobile parking
lots, or is located adjacent to land used or being acquired for publicly owned
parking lots.  The City Planning Commission, with the assistance of the
Off-Street Parking Bureau, shall determine to what extent and on which lots the
required parking may be waived, but in no event shall the total number of the
waived parking spaces exceed the total number provided on the publicly owned
parking lots.	(p)	Exception for Central City Area.  (Added by Ord. No. 129,334,
Eff. 2/28/65.) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section to the
contrary, within that area hereinafter described, the off-street automobile
parking spaces required in connection with the following residential uses shall
be located on the same lot and said spaces shall be provided in the following
ratio:	(1)	One space for each dwelling unit, except where there are more than
six dwelling units of more than three habitable rooms per unit on any lot, the
ratio of parking spaces required for all of such units shall be at least one and
one-quarter parking spaces for each dwelling unit of more than three habitable
rooms.	(2)	One space for each two individual guest rooms or suites of rooms for
the first 20, one additional parking space for each four guest rooms or suites
of rooms in excess of 20 but not exceeding 40, and one additional parking space
for each six guest rooms or suites of rooms in excess of 40.	With regard to any
development for which architectural and structural plans sufficient for a
complete plan check were accepted by the Department of Building and Safety and
for which a complete and full plan check fee was paid on or before May 11, 1988,
and for which no subsequent changes are made to those plans which increase the
number of dwelling units or guest rooms:	This exception shall apply to property
located within the area bounded by Western Avenue from Melrose Avenue to
Washington Boulevard, Washington Boulevard to Vermont Avenue, Vermont Avenue
from Washington Boulevard to the Santa Monica Freeway, the Santa Monica Freeway
from Vermont Avenue to Hoover Street, Hoover Street from the Santa Monica
Freeway to Union Avenue, Union Avenue from Hoover Street to Washington
Boulevard, Washington Boulevard from Union Avenue to the Harbor Freeway, the
Harbor Freeway from Washington Boulevard to Figueroa Street, Figueroa Street
from Harbor Freeway to Jefferson Boulevard, Jefferson Boulevard from Figueroa
Street to Broadway, Broadway from Jefferson Boulevard to Martin Luther King, Jr.
Boulevard, Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard from Broadway to Central Avenue,
Central Avenue from Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard to 41st Street, 41st
Street from Central Avenue to the City Boundary at Alameda Street, City Boundary
north and east to Soto Street, Soto Street from the City Boundary to Valley
Boulevard, Valley Boulevard from Soto Street to North Main Street, North Main
Street from Valley Boulevard to the Golden State Freeway, the Golden State
Freeway from North Main Street to the Pasadena Freeway, the Pasadena Freeway
from the Golden State Freeway to Stadium Way, Stadium Way from the Pasadena
Freeway to Elysian Park Avenue, Elysian Park Avenue from Stadium Way to Lilac
Terrace, Lilac Terrace from Stadium Way to Sunset Boulevard, Sunset Boulevard
from Lilac Terrace to Silver Lake Boulevard, Silver Lake Boulevard from Sunset
Boulevard to the Hollywood Freeway, the Hollywood Freeway from Silver Lake
Boulevard to Melrose Avenue, Melrose Avenue from the Hollywood Freeway to
Western Avenue. (Second Unnumbered Para. Amended by Ord. No. 163,666, Eff.
7/2/88.)	With regard to any development for which architectural and structural
plans sufficient for a complete plan check were not accepted by the Department
of Building and Safety and for which a complete and full plan check fee was paid
after May 11, 1988 and before November 22, 1988:	This exception shall apply to
property located within the area bounded by Western Avenue from Wilshire
Boulevard to Washington Boulevard, Washington Boulevard to Vermont Avenue,
Vermont Avenue from Washington Boulevard to the Santa Monica Freeway, the Santa
Monica Freeway from Vermont Avenue to Hoover Street, Hoover Street from Santa
Monica Freeway to Union Avenue, Union Avenue from Hoover Street to Washington
Boulevard, Washington Boulevard from Union Avenue to the Harbor Freeway, the
Harbor Freeway from Washington Boulevard to Figueroa Street, Figueroa Street
from the Harbor Freeway to Jefferson Boulevard, Jefferson Boulevard from
Figueroa Street to Broadway, Broadway from Jefferson Boulevard to Martin Luther
King, Jr. Boulevard, Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard from Broadway to Central
Avenue, Central Avenue from Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard to 41st Street,
41st Street from Central Avenue to the City Boundary at Alameda street, City
Boundary north and east to Soto Street, Soto Street from the City Boundary to
Valley Boulevard, Valley Boulevard from Soto Street to North Main street, North
Main Street from Valley Boulevard to the Golden State Freeway, the Golden State
Freeway from North Main Street to the Pasadena Freeway, the Pasadena Freeway
from the Golden State Freeway to Stadium Way, Stadium Way from the Pasadena
Freeway to Elysian Park Avenue, Elysian Park Avenue from Stadium Way to Lilac
Terrace, Lilac Terrace from Stadium Way to Sunset Boulevard, Sunset Boulevard
from Lilac Terrace to Alvarado Street, Alvarado Street from Sunset Boulevard to
Kent street, Kent Street from Alvarado Street to Coronado Street, Coronado
Street from Kent Street to Temple Street, Temple Street from Coronado Street to
Coronado Street, Coronado Street from Temple Street to Third Street, Third
Street from Coronado Street to Hoover Street, Hoover Street from Third Street to
Beverly Boulevard, Beverly Boulevard from Hoover Street to First Street, First
Street from Beverly Boulevard to Vermont Avenue, Vermont Avenue from First
Street to Wilshire Boulevard, Wilshire Boulevard from Vermont Avenue to Western
Avenue. (Third Unnumbered Para. Amended by Ord. No. 164,394, Eff. 3/13/89.)	With
regard to any development for which architectural and structural plans
sufficient for complete plan check were not accepted by the Department of
Building and Safety and for which a complete and full plan check fee was paid on
or after November 22, 1988:	This exception shall apply to property located
within the area bounded by beginning at the Los Angeles River and Alhambra
Avenue; thence southwesterly along Alhambra Avenue to Main Street; thence
southwesterly along Main Street to Ord Street; thence westerly along Ord Street
to North Broadway; thence southerly along North Broadway to Sunset Boulevard;
thence northwesterly along Sunset Boulevard to Pasadena Freeway; thence
southwesterly along the Pasadena Freeway and the Harbor Freeway to Fourth
Street; thence northwesterly along Fourth Street to Third Street; thence
northwesterly along Third street to Bixel Street; thence southwesterly along
Bixel Street to Fifth Street; thence northwesterly along Fifth Street to Lucas
Avenue; thence southwesterly along Lucas Avenue to Sixth Street; thence
northwesterly along Sixth Street to Valencia Street; thence southwesterly along
Valencia Street to Seventh Street; thence southeasterly along Seventh Street to
Garland Avenue; thence southwesterly along Garland Avenue to Ninth Street;
thence southeasterly along Ninth Street to the Harbor Freeway; thence
southwesterly and southerly along the Harbor Freeway to Figueroa Street; thence
southerly along Figueroa Street from the Harbor Freeway to Jefferson Boulevard;
thence easterly along Jefferson Boulevard from Figueroa street to Broadway;
thence southerly along Broadway from Jefferson Boulevard to Martin Luther King,
Jr. Boulevard; thence easterly along Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard from
Broadway to Central Avenue; thence southerly along Central Avenue from Martin
Luther King, Jr. Boulevard to 41st Street; thence easterly along 41st Street
from Central Avenue to the City Boundary at Alameda Street; thence northerly
along City boundary to 24th Street; thence easterly along City boundary to the
Los Angeles River; thence northerly to the westbound transition connecting the
Golden State and the Santa Monica Freeways; thence northeasterly along said
transition to 7th Street; thence westerly along 7th Street to Anderson Street;
thence northerly along Anderson Street to Sunrise Street; thence easterly along
Sunrise Street to Clarence Street; thence northerly along Clarence street to
Jesse Street; thence westerly along Jesse Street to Anderson Street: thence
northerly along Anderson Street to Whittier Boulevard; thence easterly along
Whittier Boulevard to Clarence Street; thence northerly along Clarence Street to
6th Street; thence easterly along 6th Street and its easterly prolongation to
the southerly prolongation of Gless Street; thence northerly along said
southerly prolongation of Gless Street to the alley southerly of 4th Street;
thence westerly along the alley southerly of 4th Street to Clarence Street;
thence northerly along Clarence Street to 1st Street; thence westerly along
First Street to the Los Angeles River; thence northeasterly along the Los
Angeles River to the Santa Ana Freeway; thence westerly and northwesterly along
the Santa Ana Freeway to Spring Street; thence northeasterly along Spring Street
to Macy Street; thence easterly along Macy Street to Alameda Street; thence
northeasterly along Alameda Street to the westerly prolongation of the southerly
line of former Bauchet Street as described in deed recorded Book 37112, page
408, of Official Records, in the office of said County Recorder; thence easterly
along said southerly line of said former Bauchet Street and continuing along
said southerly line in its various courses intersection with in the
southeasterly line of former Date Street, as described in said deed recorded in
Book 37112, page 408 of Official Records; thence northeasterly along said
southeasterly line of former Date Street and continuing along its northeasterly
prolongation to Vignes Street; thence southeasterly along Vignes Street to
Bauchet Street; thence westerly along Bauchet Street to Avila Street; thence
southerly along Avila Street to Macy Street; thence easterly along Macy Street
to Los Angeles River; thence northerly and northeasterly along the Los Angeles
River to Alhambra Avenue. (Fourth Unnumbered Para. Added by Ord. No. 164,394,
Eff. 3/13/89.)	(q)	Exception.  Dwelling on Narrow Lot.   Where only one
single-family dwelling is located on a nonconforming lot 40 feet or less in
width and not abutting an alley, only one automobile parking space need be
provided.  This exception shall not apply to any lot in the A1, A2, RA, RE, RS,
R1 or RD Zones which fronts on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 168,159, Eff. 9/14/92.)	(r)	Exception for Teen Posts.
Notwithstanding any other provisions on this section to the contrary, no
off-street automobile parking spaces shall be required in connection with a
building or structure, or portion thereof, used primarily for the operation of a
“Teen Post” administered by Teen Post, Incorporated, a delegate agency of
the Greater Los Angeles Community Action Agency, or its successors. This
exception shall be effective to and including December 31, 1974, only.
Thereafter, the off-street automobile parking requirements of the Comprehensive
Zoning Plan of the City of Los Angeles shall apply fully to such a use, and any
certificate of occupancy issued for such a use during the time this paragraph is
in effect not having the required number of off-street automobile parking spaces
shall automatically be cancelled and the building shall no longer be so occupied
or used unless and until the required automobile parking spaces are provided and
a new certificate is issued. (Amended by Ord. No. 145,487, Eff.
2/24/74.)	(s)	Parking Requirements for Air Space Lots. Notwithstanding any
provision of this section to the contrary, in the case of developments
containing one or more air space lots, required automobile parking spaces may be
located anywhere on the lot which has had the spaces above or below it divided
by such air space lot or lots. All other parking requirements of this section
shall apply to developments containing one or more air space lots. (Added by
Ord. No. 156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.)	(t)	Exception for Rental Units Resulting from
Conversion of One- Family Dwellings. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
subdivision to the contrary, in the RD, R2, R3, R4 and R5 zones, only one
automobile parking space is required for each dwelling unit which results from
the conversion of an existing one-family dwelling, by the interior structural
alteration thereof or by the addition of not more than 250 square feet of floor
area thereto, into two or more dwelling units and all such newly created
dwelling units are rental units. (Added by Ord. No. 157,220, Eff.
12/11/82.)	(u)	Senior Independent Housing / Assisted Living Care Housing /
Housing Development Occupied By Disabled Persons.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,063, Eff. 12/30/06.)  Except for Skilled Nursing Care Housing and
Alzheimer’s / Dementia Care Housing, the number of parking spaces required for
Senior Independent Housing, Assisted Living Care Housing, or a housing
development occupied by disabled persons as set forth below, may be reduced to
50 percent of the number otherwise required by this subdivision if all of the
following requirements are met:	(1)	Each dwelling unit or guest room in the
development shall be occupied by at least one person who is disabled or 62 years
of age or older, except for management or maintenance personnel who are required
to live on the premises.  For purposes of this paragraph, a disabled person is
a person who has: (a) physical or mental disabilities, which seriously restricts
that person from operating a motor vehicle; (b) is expected to be of long,
continued and indefinite duration; (c) substantially impedes his or her ability
to live independently; and (d) is of a nature that the ability to live
independently could be improved by more suitable housing conditions.	(2)	There
shall also be provided at least ten square feet of indoor recreation space and
at least 50 square feet of usable open space for each dwelling unit in the
development, both of which shall be available and accessible to all residents of
the development.  The open space may be located on the ground, on terraces or
on rooftops, shall be landscaped or developed for active or passive recreation
and may include roofed recreation areas, swimming pools, or unenclosed porches
where not otherwise prohibited.  The open space may include walkways, but shall
not include land used for required front or side yards, private streets,
driveways, passageways, parking, loading or service areas.	(3)	Prior to the
issuance of a building permit for construction of the development, the owner
shall execute and record in the Office of the County Recorder of Los Angeles
County, as a covenant running with the land for the benefit of the City of Los
Angeles, an agreement that if the Department of Building and Safety determines
that the development ceases to qualify under Subparagraph (1) above, the owner
will at the written request of the Department of Building and Safety develop the
additional parking spaces otherwise required for the development by this
subdivision.	(v)	Exception for Pre-1934 Public Branch Libraries. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Code to the contrary, no off-street automobile
parking spaces shall be required in connection with a building or structure, or
portion thereof, or subsequent addition thereto, which is used primarily for the
operation of a City of Los Angeles public branch library if built prior to 1934
and administered by the City Board of Library Commissioners. (Added by Ord. No.
159,920, Eff. 7/7/85.)	(w)	Shelter for the Homeless. The number of automobile
parking spaces required for a “shelter for the homeless” as defined in
Section 12.03 of this Code, located within 1,000 feet of a public transit stop
may be reduced to 25 percent of the number otherwise required by Paragraphs (a)
through (v), inclusive, of this Subdivision 4, but in no event less than two
spaces for any such shelter. The number of automobile parking spaces required
for a “shelter for the homeless” as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code,
located 1,000 feet or more from a public transit stop, may be reduced to 25
percent of the number otherwise required by Paragraphs (a) through (v),
inclusive, of this Subdivision 4, plus two spaces. (Added by Ord. No. 161,427,
Eff. 8/2/86.)	(x)	Exception for Council Approved Agreements and
Historic/Cultural Buildings, and Specified Exception Areas.  (Added by Ord. No.
165,773, Eff. 5/21/90.)	(1)	For any project for which an Owner Participation
Agreement or Developer Disposition Agreement has been signed between the owner
or developer of a project and the Community Redevelopment Agency and approved by
Council before February 28, 1989, the parking required shall be either the
number of parking spaces described in the subject agreement, or the parking
required by the Los Angeles Municipal Code as of February 29, 1989, whichever is
greater.	(2)	Notwithstanding any provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to
the contrary, for any structure designated on the National Register of Historic
places or State or City list of historical or cultural monuments, no additional
parking spaces need be provided in connection with a change of use. 
Nevertheless, a decision-making body as part of a discretionary approval related
to a change of use may impose conditions requiring additional parking
requirements in connection with the change of use.  Existing parking for such
buildings shall be maintained if the proposed use requires the same or more
parking.  If the floor area of such building is increased, then parking shall
be provided for the increased floor area as set forth in Section 12.21A(4). 
The parking requirements for existing buildings set forth in Section 12.21A(4)m
shall still apply to an historic building and any change of use of that
building.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,056, Eff. 11/13/94.)	(3)	Except for the
Downtown Business District parking area described in Section 12.21A,4(i) the
following described areas there need only be two parking spaces for every one
thousand square feet of combined gross floor area of commercial office,
business, retail, restaurant, bar and related uses, trade schools, or research
and development buildings on any lot:	1.	Chinatown Redevelopment Project Area,
delineated by Ordinance No. 153,385;	2.	Hollywood Redevelopment Project Area,
delineated by Ordinance No. 161,202;	3.	Wilshire Center/Koreatown Recovery
Redevelopment Project Area, delineated by Ordinance No. 170,806;  (Amended by
Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	4.	Central Business District Redevelopment
Project Areas delineated by Ordinance Nos. l40,069; 113,231; 135,900; 140,662;
147,480;	5.	North Hollywood Redevelopment Area, delineated by Ordinance No.
152,030;	6.	Any Enterprise Zone as that term is defined in Section 12.21.4 of
this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	7.	(Repealed by Ord.
No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	8.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)	9.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	10.	(Repealed by
Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	(y)	City Planning Commission Authority for
Reduced On-Site Parking with Remote Off-site Parking or Transportation
Alternatives.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The City
Planning Commission may, upon application, authorize reduced on-site parking and
remote off-site parking.  The City Planning Commission authorization may only
be approved in connection with a City Planning Commission approval of an
application or appeal otherwise subject to its jurisdiction including the
following: the City Planning Commission action on an application for a zone
change, height district change, supplemental use district, and conditional use
pursuant to Section 12.24U; the City Planning Commission action on a tentative
tract map appeal, a vesting tentative tract map appeal, a development agreement;
and the City Planning Commission action on a request for a density bonus greater
than the minimum 25 percent required by California Government Code Section
65915, exception from a specific plan, or a project permit pursuant to a
moratorium ordinance or interim control ordinance.  In exercising this
authority, the City Planning Commission shall act on an application in the same
manner and subject to the same limitations as applicable to the Zoning
Administrator, under Section 12.27X.  However, the procedures for notice,
hearing, time limits, appeals and Council review shall be the same as those
applicable to the underlying discretionary approval.	5.	Design of Parking
Facilities. Every parking area and garage providing required or non-required
parking stalls, other than those parking areas in garages lawfully in existence
on February 9, 1972, shall be designed, improved, and maintained in accordance
with the following regulations, provided, however, that any parking stall in
which the normal turning pattern is obstructed shall be designed in accordance
with standards established by the Superintendent of Building. (Amended by Ord.
No. 142,418, Eff. 10/15/71, Oper.  2/9/72.)	(a)	Parking Stall Dimensions.
(Amended by Ord. No. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)PARKING BAY DIMENSIONS
CHART NO. 1
(Added by Ord. NO. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)
PARKING BAY DIMENSIONS CHART NO. 2
(Added by Ord. NO. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)
PARKING BAY DIMENSIONS CHART NO. 3
(Added by Ord. NO. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)
PARKING BAY DIMENSIONS CHART NO. 4
(Added by Ord. NO. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)
	(1)	Width. (Amended by Ord. No. 179,191, Eff. 11/5/07.)  Every parking stall
provided for dwelling units shall be at least 8 feet 6 inches wide, every
compact stall shall be at least 7 feet 6 inches wide, and every other parking
stall shall be at least 8 feet 4 inches wide, except that:	(i)	Every parallel
parking stall shall be at least 8 feet wide;	(ii)	Every parking stall, other
than those provided for a one-family or two- family dwelling, which is adjoined
on either side of its longer dimension by a fence, wall, partition, column, post
or similar obstruction, and said obstruction is located less than 14 feet from
the access aisle measured along the length of the stall, shall have its minimum
width increased by at least 10 inches on the side of the
obstruction.	(iii)	Exception:  (Added by Ord. No. 182,110, Eff. 5/29/12.)  The
required width and length of a parking stall may be reduced to accommodate a
structure solely supporting a solar energy system if it meets all of the
following conditions:	a.	The structural elements are within 10 inches of a
corner of the stall farthest from the access aisle or driveway.	b.	For tandem
spaces, dimensions are reduced only for the stall farthest from the access
driveway.	c.	The reductions are not applied to a disabled parking stall.	d.	The
parking lot already exists and is not new construction.	See diagram
below:	(2)	Length. Every compact parking stall shall be at least 15 feet long,
every parallel parking stall shall be at least 26 feet long, and every other
parking stall shall be at least 18 feet long.	(b)	Parking Bay Dimensions. The
minimum width of each parking bay shall be determined by the stall width and
parking angle in accordance with Chart Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this section. Where
parking stalls of two bays interlock the parking bays may overlap. (Amended by
Ord. No. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)	(c)	Compact Stalls. (Amended by
Ord. No. 156,979, Eff. 9/25/82.)  In each parking area or garage devoted to
parking for dwelling uses all parking stalls in excess of one parking stall per
dwelling unit may be designed as compact parking stalls to accommodate compact
cars.	In each parking area or garage containing 10 or more parking stalls for
other than dwelling uses, not more than 40 percent of the required stalls may be
designed as compact stalls to accommodate compact cars. Such restriction shall
not apply to parking stalls in excess of the number of required stalls. All
other provisions of this section shall apply to each parking stall.	The minimum
bay widths required by Paragraph (b) of this subdivision may be reduced for bays
or portions of bays containing compact stalls.	Each stall designed to
accommodate a compact car shall be clearly marked as a compact stall. Each
parking area or garage containing 10 or more parking stalls of which more than
20 percent are in compact stalls shall have a sign posted at each entrance or
other appropriate locations which shall contain the following information: (i)
compact cars are to be parked in compact stalls when available, (ii)
standard-sized cars shall not be parked in compact only stalls, (iii) problems
concerning parking should be reported to the property owner or a designated
representative, and (iv) the phone number of the property owner or designated
representative.	The sign requirements of this section shall not apply to any
parking area or garage that has been granted authority by the Office of Zoning
Administrator to increase compact parking prior to May 21, 1981 so long as such
parking area or garage conforms to the terms and conditions of such
grant.	(d)	Attended Commercial Parking Lots. A public parking area containing no
required parking stalls and providing attendants to park the vehicles at all
times when said area is open for use shall be designed in compliance with
Paragraphs (c), (f), (g), (i) and (k) of this subdivision, but shall not be
subject to the requirements set forth in any other paragraph of this
subdivision. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper.
2/9/72.)	(e)	Driveway Location. Access driveways to every parking area and
garage shall be designed in accordance with Sections 62.105.1, 62.105.2,
62.105.3 and 62.105.4 of this Code, and in a manner to provide the minimum
practical interference with the use of adjacent property and with pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.	Such driveways shall be located in accordance with a plan
approved by the Department of Building and Safety in the following
instances:	(1)	On a lot in a P (including any combination with an A or R Zone)
or PB Zone.	(2)	For every parking area or garage having a capacity of more than
25 automobiles or trucks.	The Department of Building and Safety shall disapprove
any plan which it determines fails to meet the standards established by this
paragraph.	(f)	Driveway Width.  Every access driveway shall be at least nine
feet in width in the A, RE, RS, R1, RU, RZ, R2, RMP, and RW Zones, and ten feet
in width in the RD, R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, R5, P, PB, C and M Zones; provided,
however, every access driveway serving a parking area or garage having a
capacity of more than 25 automobiles or trucks shall be at least 19 feet in
width, or in lieu thereof, there shall be two access driveways, each of which is
at least ten feet in width; provided further, however, that an access driveway
serving an apartment house erected in the R2 Zone shall be at least ten feet in
width.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)	(g)	Driveway and Ramp
Slopes. The slope of every driveway or ramp shall not exceed 20 percent, except
that where an existing driveway being used for access is required to be modified
because of a public improvement project, such grade may exceed 20 percent
provided the design is approved by the City Engineer.	Transition slopes in
driveways and ramps shall be designed to the  standards established by the
Superintendent of Building and the City Engineer.	(h)	Tandem Parking.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 179,191, Eff. 11/5/07.)  Each required parking stall within a
parking area or garage shall be accessible.  Automobiles may be parked in
tandem in the following instances:	(1)	In a public garage or public parking
area, which provides attendants to park vehicles at all times the garage or area
is open for use.	(2)	In a private garage or private parking area serving a
one-family dwelling, an apartment house, apartment hotel, hotel, two-family
dwelling, or multiple or group dwelling, where the tandem parking is not more
than two cars in depth.  Tandem parking shall not be allowed in parking areas
for recreational vehicles or guest parking.	(i)	Parking Stall Location. (Amended
by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff. 12/11/72.)  Each automobile parking stall shall be so
located that:	(1)	No automobile is required to back onto any public street or
sidewalk to leave the parking stall, parking bay or driveway, except where such
parking stalls, parking bays or driveways serve not more than two dwelling units
and where the driveway access is to a street other than a major or secondary
highway. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,608, Eff. 11/26/78.)	(2)	Parking maneuvers can
be accomplished without driving onto that portion of a required front yard where
driveways are prohibited. Car stops or other barriers shall be provided in
accordance with Section 12.21-A.6. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,082, Eff.
12/11/72.)	(j)	Internal Circulation. All portions of a public parking area or,
public garage shall be accessible to all other portions thereof without
requiring the use of any public street, unless the Department of Transportation
determines that such use is not detrimental to the flow of traffic. (Amended by
Ord. No. 152,425, Eff. 6/29/79.)	The driveway width within a public garage shall
maintain a constant width for its entire length.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,191,
Eff. 11/5/07.)	(k)	Lighting.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,858, Eff. 1/23/98.) 
All lights used to illuminate a parking area shall be designed, located and
arranged so as to reflect the light away from any street and any adjacent
premises.	EXCEPTION:  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	Lights in
compliance with Sections 91.6305 and 91.8607 of the Code.	All parking areas and
garages provided for three or more dwelling units or guest rooms shall have an
average surface illumination of not less than 0.2 footcandles (2.15 lx).	All
parking areas and garages provided for three or more dwelling units or guest
rooms shall have an average surface illumination of not less than 0.2
footcandles (2.15 lx).	(l)	Striping.  All parking stalls, other than those
serving a one-family dwelling, shall be striped substantially in accordance with
the illustrations set forth on Chart No. 5 of this section.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 179,191, Eff. 11/5/07.)STRIPING FOR PARKING STALLS CHART NO. 5
(Added by Ord. NO. 142,306, Eff. 9/13/71, Oper. 2/9/72.)STANDARD PARKING STALLS
COMPACT PARKING STALLS	(m)	Mechanical Automobile Lifts and Robotic Parking
Structures.  The stacking of two or more automobiles via a mechanical car lift
or computerized parking structure is permitted in all zones.  The platform of
the mechanical lift on which the automobile is first placed shall be
individually and easily accessible and shall be placed so that the location of
the platform and vehicular access to the platform meet the requirements of
paragraphs (a), (b), and (i) of this subdivision.  The lift equipment or
computerized parking structure shall meet any applicable building, mechanical
and electrical code requirements as approved by the Department of Building and
Safety.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,191, Eff. 11/5/07.)	6.	Automobile Parking and
Sales Area — Improvement. Every public or private parking area or automobile,
manufactured home or trailer sales area other than those lawfully in existence
on August 21, 1969, shall be arranged, improved and maintained in accordance
with the following regulations: (Amended by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff.
12/6/86.)	(a)	Yard Areas. (Title and Par. (a) amended by Ord. No. 152,949, Eff.
9/21/79.) Where a public parking area is the principal use of land in the A or R
zones, or in any combination of an A or R zone with a P zone, the public parking
area shall not extend into the portion of the lot within 10 feet of the front
lot line.	Where parking is an accessory use of land in the A and R zones, the
parking area may occupy the remainder of the lot, except for the required A or R
zone front yard, and a five foot side yard along the side street lot line of a
corner lot.	(b)	(None)	(c)	Paving and Car Stops.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,530,
Eff. 4/4/97.)  Every parking area, every parking garage required by the
provisions of this article, every automobile storage area (except those areas
utilized for the temporary storage of automobiles for not to exceed six months
in any calendar year), and every automobile, manufactured home or trailer sales
area, including access driveways to those areas, shall be paved with hard,
durable asphaltic paving which has been mixed at a plant and is at least two
inches thick after compaction, or with portland cement paving at least three
inches thick or any material deemed equivalent by the Department of Building and
Safety.  All such areas shall have appropriate bumper guards, wheel stops,
steel posts, walls, curbs, suitable landscaping or other installations adequate
to prevent vehicles from parking or maneuvering on those portions of a lot upon
which a driveway or parking area is prohibited, or into a public right of way,
or where those portions of a lot are needed to prevent encroachment on walkways
or adjoining properties.	Exception:  Access driveways to the areas referenced
above may be paved with a permeable material such as pavers, porous concrete, a
combination of 45% concrete and 55% holes filled with grass distributed
uniformly (commonly known as grasscrete), or any material deemed equivalent by
the Department of City Planning.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,191, Eff.
11/5/07.)	(d)	Wall Required. Every public or private parking area, or
automobile, manufactured home or trailer sales area shall be completely enclosed
with a wall except that no wall shall be required: (Amended by Ord. No. 161,716,
Eff. 12/6/86.)	(1)	across necessary driveways;	(2)	on a lot in an M2 or M3
Zone;	(3)	along a lot line abutting an alley, a public parking area, or a P (not
including the A or R zones), PB, C or M zones;	(4)	along any portion of a lot
line, including the front lot line where no parking area or access driveway is
located within 15 feet of said line, when adequate safeguards are provided to
prevent vehicles from occupying said 15 foot space and said space is
landscaped;	(5)	along any lot line of an automobile sales area that abuts a
street, provided, however, such sales area incorporates landscaped area or areas
in the amount of at least three percent of said sales area.	(e)	Wall Height.
(Amended by Ord. No. 147,913, Eff. 1/23/76.) The wall required by Paragraph (d)
hereof or constructed in compliance with Paragraphs (g) or (h) hereof, shall be
not less than five feet nine inches in height, except under the following
circumstances:	(1)	The wall shall not be less than four feet in height in any
lot where the surface of the parking area is raised one foot nine inches or more
above the natural ground, said wall to be measured from the finished grade of
the parking area. Provided, however, that where the wall requirements here
specified would exceed those specified in Section 12.22-C,20(f), the provisions
of Section 12.22-C,20(f) shall control.	(2)	The wall shall not be less than
three feet in height under the following circumstances:	(ii-a)	On that portion
of a lot in the A or R zone which extends into the required front
yard;	(ii-b)	On that portion of a lot in a P (not including the A or R zones),
PB, C or M1 zone within 15 feet of the front lot line	(ii-c)	On that portion of
a corner lot within five feet of the side street lot line.	(ii-d)	Along any lot
line abutting a street.	(f)	Wall Construction and Maintenance. (Amended by Ord.
No. 158,894, Eff. 6/8/84.) Walls required by this subdivision or constructed in
compliance with Paragraphs (g) and (h) hereof, when located along the lot lines
of parking areas and said lot lines abut a street, shall be of concrete or
masonry construction, but need not be solid walls, provided that any open areas
in said walls shall be designed for architectural effect. Walls, or portions of
walls, abutting a street and constructed above the minimum three foot height
required by this subdivision shall be designed to permit visibility into the
parking area from the street and shall be constructed of wrought iron,
vista-type masonry or other materials as approved by the Department of Building
and Safety.	All other walls required by this subdivision shall be without
openings, and shall be of concrete or masonry provided, however, that other
materials may be used in the construction of the wall enclosing a private
parking area containing not more than four parking spaces. All concrete or
masonry walls shall have a minimum nominal thickness of six inches unless
designed to withstand lateral force and constructed pursuant to plans approved
by the Department of Building and Safety.	All walls shall be maintained in good
condition.	(g)	Improvement. Where a lot located in all zones but the A, R, or A
or R in combination with a P zone is used for a public parking area for more
than 20 vehicles and is offering as its prime service the commercial parking of
motor vehicles for the public at large, at least two percent of the parking area
shall be devoted to improvement as follows:	(1)	One-half of the required two
percent improvement shall be credited for street trees planted in accordance
with plans approved  by the Street Tree Division of the Bureau of Street
Maintenance. Approval shall be granted for any plan which complies with the
Master Plan for Street Trees. Existing street trees shall be considered in
satisfying this provision;	(2)	One-half of the required two percent improvement
shall be credited for walls, providing walls are constructed along all lot lines
abutting a street. Existing walls shall be credited.	(3)	Up to and including
one-half of the two percent improvement shall be credited for landscaped setback
areas, provided that the total of such setback area is equal to that percent of
the total parking area being created.	(4)	Up to and including one-half of the
two percent improvement shall be credited for interior landscaping, provided
that the total of such landscaped area is equal to that percent of the total
parking area being credited.	(5)	On those lots having no street frontage two
percent improvement shall be credited for interior landscaping, provided that
the total of such landscaped area is equal to the percent of the total parking
area credited.	(h)	Improvement. Where a lot located in either an A, R, or A or R
in combination with a P zone, or is serving as a parking area for the primary
use of as specific building or buildings, and said lot is used for a public or
private parking area for more than 20 vehicles, at least four percent of the
parking area shall be devoted to improvements as follows:	(1)	One-fourth of the
required four percent improvement shall be credited for street trees planted in
accordance with plans approved by the Street Tree Division. Approval shall be
granted for any plan which complies with the Master Plan for Street Trees.
Existing street trees shall be considered in satisfying this
provision;	(2)	One-fourth of the required four percent improvement shall be
credited for walls, provided that walls are constructed along all lot lines
abutting a street. Existing walls shall be credited;	(3)	Up to and including
three-fourths of the four percent improvement shall be credited for landscaped
setback areas, provided that the total of said setback area is equal to the
percent of the total parking area credited;	(4)	Up to and including
three-fourths of the four percent improvement shall be credited for interior
landscaping, provided that the total of such landscaped area is equal to that
percent of the total parking area being credited;	(5)	On those lots having no
street frontage, four percent improvement shall be credited for interior
landscaping provided the total of such landscaped area is equal to that percent
of the total parking area being credited.	(i)	Landscaping. (Amended by Ord. No.
152,467, Eff. 7/14/79.)  Those portions of a lot developed as a public parking
area on which automobile parking is prohibited by paragraph (a) above, or
otherwise not improved, shall be fully landscaped with lawn, trees, shrubs or
suitable groundcover, and no portion except the access driveways shall be
paved.	Where a wall is not required along any lot line of an automobile sales
area abutting a street, said sales area shall incorporate a landscaped area or
areas in the amount of at least three percent of said sales areas.	All
landscaping required by the provisions of this subsection or provided in
compliance with Paragraphs (g) or (h) hereof shall be installed in accordance
with a plan approved by the City Planning Department. Approval shall be granted
for any wherein the design and materials proposed therein are reasonably
appropriate for the use and appearance of the parking area. Such landscaped
areas shall be equipped with a water sprinkler system and shall be maintained
free of weeds and debris.	(j)	Lighting. All lights used to illuminate an
automobile, manufactured home or trailer sales area shall be designed, located
and arranged so as to reflect the light away from any street and any adjacent
premises. Parking areas and garages shall conform to the lighting requirements
of Sec. 12.21-A, 5(k). (Amended by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff.
12/6/86.)	(k)	Intersection Obstruction. The provisions of this subsection shall
not be construed as permitting any obstruction at a street intersection contrary
to the provisions of Section 62.200 of this Code.	7.	(Amended by Ord. No.
174,547, Eff. 6/10/02.)  No nameplate, sign or advertising matter of any kind
shall be placed or maintained on any lot in any zone except in accordance with
the following regulations:	(a)	All nameplates, signs and advertising matter on a
lot in an “A” or “R” Zone shall pertain to a permitted use (except that
no signs shall be permitted to identify a home occupation) or indicate the name
of the occupant and shall be located on the same lot with that use;	(b)	No
nameplate, sign or advertising matter, which is attached to a building on a lot
in an “A” or “R” Zone, may project above the roof ridge or parapet wall
(whichever is the higher) of the building;	(c)	No illuminated nameplate,
identification sign or advertising matter, which is permitted by this
subdivision, may be of the flashing, moving or animated type;	(d)	There may be
only one unlighted nameplate for each dwelling unit on a lot in an “A” or
“R” Zone indicating the name of the occupant, (except that no signs shall be
permitted to identify a home occupation), and no nameplate may exceed three
square feet in area in an “A” Zone, nor exceed one and one-half square feet
in area in an “R” Zone;	(e)	There may be one or more unlighted signs
pertaining to the sale of farm products raised or produced on the premises, but
the total area of all these signs shall not exceed 20 square feet on any lot in
an “A” Zone, nor exceed 12 feet on any lot in an “R” Zone;	(f)	There may
be one or more unlighted signs pertaining to the prospective rental or sale of
the property, but the total area of all these signs shall not exceed 20 square
feet on any lot in an “A” Zone, nor exceed 12 square feet on any lot in an
“R” Zone; 	(g)	There may be one identification sign for each farm, ranch,
estate or building other than a dwelling in an “A” Zone, but that
identification sign may not exceed 20 square feet in area;	(h)	There may be one
or more signs identifying the buildings or permitted use (except that no signs
shall be permitted to identify a home occupation) on any lot in any “R”
Zone, but no one sign may have a surface area which exceeds 20 square feet, nor
shall the total surface area of all these signs exceed 30 square feet;	(i)	There
may be one church bulletin board, not exceeding 18 square feet in area, on any
lot in any “A” or “R” Zone;	(j)	There may be one or more signs, warning
against trespassing, on any lot in an “A” Zone, but no one sign shall exceed
three square feet in area.	(k)	Temporary Subdivision Directional Signs. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, a Zoning Administrator may
approve the use of any property in an “A” or “R” Zone for the erection
and maintenance of temporary unlighted subdivision directional signs, which are
neither reflective nor fluorescent, if he or she finds that the location of the
signs is proper in relation to uses of adjacent property and that the use will
not be materially detrimental to the property of other persons located in that
vicinity.  This approval shall be subject to the following regulations:
 	(1)	An application shall be filed in the Office of Zoning Administration upon
a form and accompanied by the data and information as has been prescribed by the
Office.  Each application shall be consented to and acknowledged by the owner
or lessee of each parcel of property upon which a sign is to erected.  Only one
application need be filed for all temporary, unlighted, subdivision directional
signs relating to a single subdivision separately numbered and recorded by the
Los Angeles County Recorder.  The manner of installation and conditions
regulating number, size and type of signs shall be determined and approved by a
Zoning Administrator.  To the extent possible, he or she shall make available a
list or explanation of those installation features and conditions that are
usually required.	(2)	An approval to erect and maintain signs pursuant to this
paragraph shall be valid for one year.  If, after one year, 3/4 of the dwelling
units or lots have not been sold or leased for the first time, approval for
retaining the directional signs for not more than an additional one-year period
may be granted by a Zoning Administrator.  	(3)	No sign erected pursuant to
this paragraph shall exceed 12 square feet in area.	(4)	One temporary,
unlighted, subdivision directional sign may be approved for location adjacent to
each street which constitutes a separate and distinct direction on the route
from a major or secondary highway to a subdivision site.  Where there are two
or more major or secondary highways from which there are routes to a subdivision
site, signs may be approved only along two routes.	(5)	The erection and
maintenance of temporary, unlighted, subdivision directional signs may be
approved only on vacant property; however, if a Zoning Administrator determines
that vacant property is not available in locations where provisions for travel
directions are essential, he or she may approve developed property for the
location of signs.	(6)	Signs may not be located within the public right-of-way
of any highway, street, alley, or on any other public right-of-way.	(7)	All
signs permitted by this paragraph shall be removed within five days after the
expiration of the authorized time period.  Each application shall contain a
statement signed by the applicant, the owner of the signs, and the owner or
lessee of the property upon which the signs are to be placed, agreeing that if
the signs are not removed as required above, they may be confiscated, removed
and destroyed by the City without further notice.  Prior to the erection of any
signs authorized pursuant to any single application, the applicant shall deposit
$100 with the Department of Building and Safety for the purposes of defraying
any expense incurred by the City in the removal of the signs.  This money shall
be refunded on the expiration of the prescribed time period if all of the signs
have been removed by the applicant, the owner of the signs, or the owner and the
lessee of the property where the signs are placed.	(8)	Any sign erected pursuant
to these regulations may be used only for the purpose of providing necessary
travel direction to a subdivision development located in the City of Los
Angeles, and must include the name of the owner, the City Planning Department
file number, and the expiration date of the approval period.  The sign may
contain the name of the land development project to which it pertains, including
a characteristic trademark or other identifying insignia.  The content of each
sign shall be subject to approval by a Zoning Administrator.	(9)	The approval of
temporary subdivision directional signs pursuant to these regulations does not
release the applicant from the responsibilities of complying with any provisions
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code pertaining to building permit requirements or
any other provisions of the Code regulating signs.	(10)	Appeals.  Appeals from
a determination by a Zoning Administrator may be taken to the Area Planning
Commission in the manner prescribed in Section 12.24 I.	(l)	Off-site signs.  No
off-site sign shall be allowed in any zone, except when off-site signs are
specifically permitted pursuant to a legally adopted specific plan, supplemental
use district, an approved development agreement, or a relocation agreement
entered into pursuant to California Business and Professions Code Section
5412.  Further, legally permitted existing signs shall not be altered or
enlarged.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,800, Eff. 8/15/05.)	8.	Dismantling,
Repairing and Storing of Vehicles – Where Prohibited.  (Added by Ord. No.
137,210, Eff. 10/12/68.)	(a)	No person shall dismantle, repair, or otherwise
perform any work upon any vehicle, machine, motor, appliance or other similar
device, other than to effect minor emergency repairs to a motor vehicle, on any
property in the A or R Zones unless such activity is incidental to a permitted
or a conditionally permitted use and is conducted within a building or within an
area wholly enclosed from view by a wall or fence conforming to the requirements
of this Code.	(b)	No vehicle (except those upon which minor emergency repairs
are presently being effected), machine, motor, appliance or other similar device
from which any part has been removed, or which is inoperable for any reason,
shall be stored, maintained, or kept on any property in the A or R Zones as an
activity incidental to a permitted or conditionally permitted use except within
a building or within an area which is wholly enclosed from view by a wall or
fence conforming to the requirements of this Code.	9.	Fences and Walls. 
Whenever fences or walls are required by any of the provisions of this chapter
or by a variance, conditional use, supplemental use district or other authorized
Planning Department determination, said fences or walls shall be maintained in
good repair and shall be kept vertical, uniform and structurally sound, and all
repairs shall blend in with said fence or wall and be compatible therewith in
color and material. Fences constructed of wood, metal, Masonite, or similar
materials shall be uniformly painted or stained or otherwise treated or sealed
to prevent weathering or deterioration.  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,030, Eff.
7/11/74.)	10.	Alcoholic Beverages.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the
contrary, no building, structure or land shall be used for sale or dispensing
for consideration of any alcoholic beverage, including beer and wine, for
consumption on the premises except upon premises approved for that use in
accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.  The provisions of this
subdivision shall not abrogate, however, any right to the continued use of
premises for these purposes pursuant to Section 12.24L.  Certain restaurants
may be excepted from the provisions of this subdivision and Section 12.24
pursuant to authority of the Zoning Administrator contained in Section
12.24X2.	11.	Tennis or Paddle Tennis Courts.  A tennis or paddle tennis court,
constructed as an accessory use to the primary residential use on the same lot
in the A or R Zones, shall comply with specific construction and operation
standards as may be established by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to
Subsection C.4. of this section and shall be located as required in Subsection
C.5. of this section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)	12.	Protected Tree Relocation and Replacement.  All existing
protected trees and relocation and replacement trees specified by the Advisory
Agency in accordance with Sections 17.02, 17.05, 17.06, 17.51 and 17.52 of this
Code shall be indicated on a plot plan attached to the building permit issued
pursuant to this Code.  In addition, the trees shall be identified and
described by map and documentation as required by the Advisory Agency.  A
Certificate of Occupancy may be issued by the Department of Building and Safety,
provided the owner of the property or authorized person representing the owner
of the property (licensed contractor) obtains from the Advisory Agency in
consultation with the City’s Chief Forester, prior to the final inspection for
the construction, a written or electronic document certifying that all the
conditions set forth by the Advisory Agency relative to protected trees have
been met.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)	13.	Permitted
Incidental Use for Bingo.  The conducting of any game of bingo authorized
pursuant to the provisions of Article 4.5 of Chapter IV of this Code shall be
permitted in the A, R, CR and C1 zones as an activity incidental to any
permitted or conditionally permitted use therein for a school, church, lodge,
auditorium, recreational and community center or other similar use, provided
that the off-street automobile parking space requirements of Subdivision 4 of
Section 12.21A have been satisfied. Parking spaces provided in satisfaction of
such requirements for the permitted incidental use for bingo shall not be
subject to the requirements set forth in Subdivisions 5, 6 and 9 of Section
12.21 A of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 153,620, Eff.
5/18/80.)	14.	Alcoholic Beverages.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the
contrary, no building, structure or land shall be used for the sale or
dispensing for consideration of any alcoholic beverage, including beer and wine,
for consumption off-site of the premises except upon premises approved for that
use in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.  The provisions of this
subdivision shall not abrogate any right to the continued use of premises for
those purposes pursuant to Section 12.24L of this Code.	The provisions of this
subdivision shall not apply to the sale or dispensing, for consideration, of
alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine, for consumption off-site of the
premises, if the premises are located within the area of an operative specific
plan which provides for conditional use approval for the sale or dispensing. 
If such a specific plan ceases to be operative, then a conditional use approval
granted pursuant to the provisions of that specific plan, for the sales or
dispensing, may continue subject to the same rights and limitations as a
conditional use granted pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24 of this
Code.	15.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 171,740, Eff. 10/27/97.)	16.	Bicycle Parking and
Shower Facilities.  (Added by Ord. No. 167,409, Eff. 12/19/91.)  Off-street
parking spaces for bicycles and facilities for employee showers and lockers
shall be provided as follows:	(a)	In the C and M zones, for any building,
portion thereof or addition thereto used for non-residential purposes which
contains a floor area in excess of 10,000 square feet, bicycle parking spaces
shall be provided at the rate of two percent of the number of automobile parking
spaces required by this section for such non-residential uses; provided,
however, that at least one bicycle parking space shall be provided for any such
building having a floor area in excess of 10,000 square feet of non-residential
use.  If the calculation of the number of required spaces under this paragraph
results in a number including a fraction, the next highest whole number shall be
the number of spaces required.	(b)	The bicycle parking space requirements in
Paragraph (a) shall also apply to any building, regardless of zone, owned by the
City of Los Angeles and used by the City for government purposes which contains
a floor area in excess of 10,000 square feet.	(c)	All bicycle parking spaces
required by this Subdivision shall include a stationary parking device which
adequately supports the bicycle.  In addition, at least half of the bicycle
parking spaces shall include a stationary parking device which securely locks
the bicycle without the use of a user-supplied cable or chain.  Devices which
hold the bicycle upright by wheel contact must hold at least 180 degrees of
wheel arc.	(d)	Each bicycle parking space shall be a minimum of two feet in
width and six feet in length and shall have a minimum of six feet of overhead
clearance.	(e)	Bicycle parking spaces shall be located no farther than the
distance from a main entrance of the building to the nearest off-street
automobile parking space.	(f)	Bicycle parking spaces shall be separated from
automobile parking spaces or aisles by a wall, fence, or curb or by at least
five feet of open space marked to prohibit parking.	(g)	Aisles providing access
to bicycle parking spaces shall be at least five feet in width.	(h)	Signage
which is clearly legible upon approach to every automobile entrance to the
parking facility shall be displayed indicating the availability and location of
bicycle parking.	(i)	Showers and lockers shall be provided as required by
Section 91.6307 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)	17.	One-Family Dwellings, Accessory Buildings and Additions. 
Hillside Regulations.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the
contrary, the following regulations shall apply to any Major Remodel –
Hillside, or construction of or addition to any One-Family Dwelling or Accessory
Building on a Lot in the A1, A2 or RD Zones which is located in whole or in part
in a Hillside Area as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	(a)	Front Yards.	(1)	For any lot that fronts on a
Substandard Hillside Limited Street, there shall be a minimum front yard of at
least five feet.  For lots having a zoning classification that contains a
provision calling for observance of the prevailing setback, the prevailing
setback regulations shall apply, so long as a front yard of no less than five
feet is provided.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,652, Eff. 7/27/02.)	(2)	For any lot
which fronts on a Standard Hillside Limited Street, the front yard shall be as
otherwise required by this Code.	(3)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Code to the contrary, open unenclosed stairways, porches, platforms and
landing places not covered by a roof or canopy shall not project or extend into
the front yard.  Balconies with 10 feet of vertical clearance beneath them may
project or extend no more than 30 inches into a front yard.  (Added by Ord. No.
168,728, Eff. 5/30/93.)	(b)	Side Yards.	(1)	For any main building, each side
yard shall be not less than five feet, unless the lot is less than 40 feet in
width, then each side yard shall be not less than four feet.	(2)	For any main
Building on a Lot in the RD Zones, the above required Side Yard or the Side Yard
required by the zone in which the Lot is located, whichever requirement is
greater, shall be increased one foot for each increment of ten feet or fraction
thereof above the first 18 feet of height of the main Building.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	(c)	Height.	(1)	On any lot where the slope of
the lot measured from the lowest point of elevation of the lot to the highest
point is 66 percent or less, no building or structure shall exceed 36 feet in
height as measured from grade.	(2)	On any lot which has a slope of greater than
66 percent as measured from the lowest point of elevation of the lot to the
highest point, no building or structure shall exceed 45 feet in height as
measured from grade.	EXCEPTION:  Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph
(2) above to the contrary, where the slope of the lot as measured from the
highest point of the lot within five horizontal feet of an exterior wall of the
main building to the lowest point of the lot within five horizontal feet of an
exterior wall of the main building is less than 66 percent, then no portion of
the main building shall exceed 36 feet in height.	(3)	Roof structures may exceed
the otherwise allowable height limit, provided the structures conform to the
provisions of Section 12.21.1 B.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)	(i)	Skylights shall not exceed the otherwise allowable height
limit by more than 30 inches, nor shall skylights which exceed the otherwise
allowable height cover more than 33 1/3 percent of the roof area upon which the
skylight is constructed.	(ii)	Roof structures housing stairways shall not exceed
the otherwise allowable height limit by more than five feet, nor shall they be
greater than 36 square feet in area.	(4)	For any lot, where the elevation of the
ground at a point 50 feet from the front lot line and midway between the side
lot lines is 33 feet or more higher than the lowest point of the front lot line,
no portion of a building or structure within 20 feet of the front lot line shall
exceed 24 feet in height.  The 24 foot maximum building and structure height
shall be measured from the elevation at the centerline or midpoint of the street
on which the lot fronts.	(5)	For the purpose of measuring height pursuant to
this subdivision, grade shall be defined as the elevation of the finished or
natural surface of the ground, whichever is lower, or the finished surface of
the ground established in conformance with a grading plan approved pursuant to a
recorded tract or parcel map action.  Retaining walls shall not raise the
effective elevation of grade for purposes of measuring height of a building or
structure.	(d)	Fire Protection.	(1)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
Code to the contrary, any new construction of a one-family dwelling or detached
accessory building, shall be protected throughout with an approved automatic
fire sprinkler system, in compliance with the Los Angeles Plumbing Code.	(2)	An
approved automatic fire sprinkler system in compliance with the Los Angeles
Plumbing Code shall be installed:	(i)	whenever an addition to an existing
one-family dwelling or accessory building increases the floor area by 50 percent
or more of the area of the existing dwelling or building; or	(ii)	whenever the
aggregate value of Major Remodels within a one-year period exceeds 50 percent of
the replacement cost of the dwelling or accessory building; and the dwelling or
accessory building is on a lot located on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street
and located either more than two miles from a fire station housing a Los Angeles
City Fire Department Truck Company or more than one and one-half miles from a
fire station housing a Los Angeles Fire Department Engine Company.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 168,728, Eff. 5/30/93.)	(3)	The sprinkler system required in (i) and
(ii) above shall be sufficient to cover the entire dwelling or building, unless
otherwise determined by the Department of Building and Safety, and shall be
installed in compliance with all applicable codes.	(4)	The provisions of
Paragraphs (i) and (ii) above shall not apply to accessory structures such as
gazebos, pergolas, or storage sheds provided these structures are not supported
by or attached to any portion of a dwelling or accessory building and do not
exceed 200 square feet in floor area.	(e)	Street Access.  (Amended by Ord. No.
174,652, Eff. 7/27/02.)	(1)	For any new construction of, or addition to, a
one-family dwelling on a lot fronting on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street,
no building permit or grading permit shall be issued unless at least one-half of
the width of the street(s) has been dedicated for the full width of the frontage
of the lot to Standard Hillside Limited Street dimensions or to a lesser width
as determined by the City Engineer.  Upon payment of the fee imposed pursuant
to the provisions of Section 12.37 F.3., an applicant may seek relief from this
dedication requirement pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.37 A.5.  (Last
Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	(2)	For any new
construction of, or addition to, a one-family dwelling on a lot fronting on a
Substandard Hillside Limited Street that is improved with a roadway width of
less than 20 feet, no building permit or grading permit shall be issued unless
the construction or addition has been approved pursuant to Section 12.24
X.21.	(3)	For any new construction of, or addition to, a one-family dwelling on
a lot that does not have a vehicular access route from a street improved with a
minimum 20 foot wide continuous paved roadway from the driveway apron that
provides access to the main residence to the boundary of the Hillside Area, no
building permit or grading permit shall be issued unless the construction or
addition meets the requirements of this Subdivision or has been approved
pursuant to Section 12.24 X.21.	(f)	Lot Coverage.	(1)	Buildings and structures
extending more than six feet above natural ground level shall cover no more than
40 percent of the area of a lot.	(2)	Notwithstanding (1) above, for a lot which
is substandard as to width (less than 50 feet) and as to area (less than 5,000
square feet), buildings and structures shall cover no more than 45 percent of
the area of a lot.	(g)	Sewer Connection.  No building permit shall be issued
for the construction of any new one-family dwelling on a lot located 200 feet or
less from a sewer mainline unless a sewer connection is provided to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer.	(h)	Off-Street Parking Requirements. 
(Amended by Ord No. 169,961, Eff. 8/29/94.)  No building or grading permit
shall be issued for the construction of any one-family dwelling, accessory
building, Major Remodel-Hillside, or addition thereto located on a lot which
fronts on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street, unless the following
requirements are met.	In addition to the off-street automobile parking spaces
required by Section 12.21 A.4.(a), the following off-street parking spaces shall
be provided:	(1)	For a main building and any accessory building, excluding floor
area devoted to required parking, which exceed a combined floor area of 2,400
square feet, there shall be one additional parking space provided for each
additional increment of 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof of floor area for
a maximum of five total on-site spaces.	(2)	Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 12.21 C.1.(g) of this Code to the contrary, the additional parking
spaces required by this paragraph may be uncovered and in tandem, and may be
located within the required 5-foot front yard.	(3)	If the requirements in this
paragraph require the grading of 1,000 cubic yards or more of earth, then no
building or grading permit shall be issued for a new one-family dwelling,
accessory building, Major Remodel-Hillside, or addition to the above on a lot
which fronts on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street unless the Zoning
Administrator has issued an approval pursuant to Section 12.24 X.21.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	(i)	Exceptions.  (Amended by
Ord No. 169,961, Eff. 8/29/94.)  The provisions of this Subdivision 17. shall
not apply to:	(1)	One-family dwellings, accessory buildings and additions
thereto within a subdivision for which a tentative or final tract map was
approved by the City of Los Angeles after February 1, 1985, and is still valid,
provided that the map resulted in the establishment of covenants, conditions and
restrictions governing building height, yards, open space or lot coverage, and
provided, further, that such covenants, conditions and restrictions were
recorded on or after February 1, 1985.	(2)	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,652, Eff.
7/27/02.)  Any construction on a lot with a vehicular access from a street
improved with a minimum 28 foot wide continuous paved roadway within the
Hillside Area, provided:	(i)	the roadway begins at the driveway apron which
provides access to the main residence and ends where the roadway intersects a
designated collector street, or a secondary or major highway where the
collector, major or secondary highway roadway also has a minimum continuous
paved roadway width of 28 feet from the apron to the edge of the Hillside Area
boundaries.	(ii)	the area within the vehicular access does not contain any
encroachment which would prohibit the passage of emergency vehicles.	(3)	Any
additions made after September 14, 1992, to a one-family dwelling existing prior
to that date, provided:	(a)	the total cumulative floor area of all such
additions does not exceed 750 square feet (excluded from calculations of this
750 square foot limitation is floor area devoted to required parking);
and	(b)	the resulting building does not exceed the height of the original
building or the height permitted in Paragraph (c) of this subdivision, whichever
is greater; and	(c)	at least two off-street parking spaces are provided.	(4)	Any
remodeling of a main building on a lot in the Hillside Area, as defined in
Section 12.03, which does not add square footage and for which the aggregate
value of all of the alterations within a one-year period does not exceed 50
percent of the replacement cost of the main building.	(5)	Where architectural
and structural plans sufficient for a complete plan check for a building permit
for a building or structure were accepted by the Department of Building and
Safety and for which a plan check fee was collected on or before the effective
date of this subdivision, and for which no subsequent changes are made to those
plans which increase the height nor reduce front or side yards. However, any
building permit shall become invalid if construction pursuant to the permit is
not commenced within 18 months of the date the plan check fee was collected. 
(Added by Ord. No. 174,652, Eff. 7/27/02.)	18.	Recycling Centers And
Facilities.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	(a)	Any educational
institution, church, league or charitable institution, or any organization
described in Section 501(c)(3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code shall be
allowed to collect cans, bottles, papers, and plastic on its grounds as an
accessory use or on City property, if approved by the City department with
jurisdiction over that property, in all zones provided that:	(1)	the area for
depositing Recyclable Materials does not exceed 200 square feet and shall be a
minimum of 10 feet from all buildings, and 150 feet from the property line of
any adjoining property in an A or R Zone, except for areas for the collection of
newspapers only;	(2)	all Recycling Receptacles are covered, durable, waterproof,
rustproof, and of incombustible construction;	(3)	notwithstanding other
provisions of this Code, Recycling Receptacles are enclosed by an eight-foot
chain link fence with wooden slats, concrete block or similar construction
(enclosure), which shall be properly maintained at all times;	(4)	either the
Recycling Receptacle or the enclosure is clearly identified with the business
name, address, telephone number, hours of operation and notice that no material
is to be left outside the enclosure;	(5)	each Recycling Receptacle clearly
indicates the type of material to be deposited;	(6)	on a daily basis the area
for depositing Recyclable Materials is kept free of litter, debris, spillage,
bugs, rodents, odors, and other similar undesirable hazards;	(7)	the hours of
operation are Monday through Saturday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., and Sunday from 10
a.m. to 4 p.m., except when the collection site is further than 500 feet from
any A or R Zone, then the permitted hours of operation are seven days a week
from dawn until dusk.	(8)	the enclosure is kept secure from unauthorized entry
by a locking gate or guard maintaining security for the main building;	(9)	the
enclosure does not diminish the required number of parking spaces or impair
traffic flow; and	(10)	newspapers are emptied from Recycling Receptacles when
full or every week, whichever occurs first and all other materials are emptied
from Recycling Receptacles when full or every 72 hours, whichever occurs
first.	(11)	The baling of newspapers is permitted; however can or bottle
crushing is not permitted.	(12)	An administrative fine of $250.00 may be
collected by the Department of Building and Safety pursuant to the procedures
set forth in Paragraph (g) of this subdivision for any violation of the
provisions of this subparagraph.	(b)	Any educational institution, church,
league, or charitable institution, or any organization described in Section
501(c)(3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code shall be permitted the use of
Mobile Recycling Centers as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, for organized
drives for the collection of cans, bottles, papers, and plastic in all zones
provided that:	(1)	collections may be made on the grounds of the organization
sponsoring the collection drive unless otherwise authorized by the Department of
Building and Safety, or on a continuous basis at a recycling center certified by
the California Department of Conservation, Recycling Division;	(2)	the
collection of materials shall not be conducted on the site of an existing
residential structure;	(3)	not more than three drives shall be conducted on the
same site within a 12- month period and the duration of any drive shall not
exceed 30 days.  No drive shall be conducted within a 90-day period following a
prior drive on the same site or within 1,000 feet of the same site;	(4)	a permit
for which no fee shall be charged must be obtained from the Board of Police
Commissioners for the purpose of verifying proper time limitations prior to
initiation of any drive conducted pursuant to this subdivision;  (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,283, Eff. 6/26/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	(5)	the Mobile Recycling Center
shall be a minimum of 10 feet from all buildings; and	(6)	the Mobile Recycling
Center shall be maintained such that it is secured from unauthorized
entry.	(7)	An administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by the Department
of Building and Safety pursuant to the procedures set forth in Paragraph (g) of
this subdivision for any violation of the provisions of this
paragraph.	(c)	Recycling Collection or Buyback Centers, including reverse
vending machines and Mobile Recycling Centers, as defined in Section 12.03 of
this Code, shall be permitted in conjunction with grocery markets in the C1 or
any less restrictive zone, or in the P or PB Zone in conjunction with a grocery
market on the same site in a C1 or less restrictive zone.	(1)	All Recycling
Collection or Buyback Centers established pursuant to this paragraph must be in
conjunction with a grocery market on the same site.	(2)	For the purposes of this
paragraph, the term “grocery market” shall mean a retail business, of which
greater than one half of the floor area is devoted to the sale of food items for
consumption or use off the premises, excluding alcoholic beverages.	(3)	No
portion of the recycling operation may be closer than 100′ to any A or R
zone.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)	(4)	The area for depositing
Recyclable Materials does not exceed a total of 600 square feet of the lot
area.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)	(5)	The requirements of
Paragraph (d)(3), and (d)(5) through (19) of this Subdivision must be complied
with at all times except that no reduction of any kind in required parking
spaces is allowed.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,840, Eff. 9/4/05.)	(d)	The
depositing of glass, cans, papers, plastic, beverage containers, and similar
Recyclable Materials, Recycling Collection or Buyback Centers, and Mobile
Recycling Centers, shall be permitted in the M2 and M3 Zones without obtaining a
conditional use permit pursuant to Section 12.24U22(b) of this Code, provided
that all of the following conditions are met:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268,
Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	(1)	the lot upon which the Recycling Collection or
Buyback Center is located is not within 1,000 feet of any A, R, C, P, PB, MR, or
M1 Zone or use;	(2)	the area for depositing Recyclable Materials does not exceed
a total of 1,000 square feet;	(3)	the area for depositing Recyclable Materials
shall be a minimum of 10 feet from all property lines, except for Reverse
Vending Machines and Reverse Vending Machine Commodity Storage Bins located 24
inches or less from the exterior wall of a building;	(4)	the entire site shall
be enclosed by a 6-foot high concrete block or masonry wall.  In addition, if
the facility is located in any C, P or PB Zone, a five-foot landscaped buffer,
approved by the City Planning Department as provided in Section 12.21A6(i) of
this Code, shall be maintained along all street frontages;	(5)	all Recycling
Receptacles shall be covered, durable, waterproof, rustproof, of incombustible
construction, and of sufficient capacity to accommodate the materials
collected;	(6)	except for Reverse Vending Machine Commodity Storage Bins, either
the Recycling Receptacle or the enclosure is clearly identified with the
operator’s name, address, telephone number, hours of operation, and a notice
that no material shall be left outside the enclosure, and each Recycling
Receptacle must clearly indicate the type of material to be deposited.	(7)	on a
daily basis the site is kept free of litter, debris, spillage, bugs, rodents,
odors, and other similar undesirable hazards;	(8)	Recyclable Materials, other
than Recyclable Materials contained in reverse vending machine commodity storage
bins, are emptied from Recycling Receptacles when full or every week, whichever
occurs first;	(9)	all recycled goods shall be placed or stored in Recycling
Receptacles and not be left out on the site by the end of the business
day;	(10)	paper products and other lightweight materials shall be immediately
placed into covered Recycling Receptacles when they are dropped off;	(11)	the
hours of operation shall not exceed Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.,
Saturday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., except for
Reverse Vending Machines that are located within 24 inches of the exterior wall
of a building, which may operate from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m., seven days a
week;	(12)	all Recycling Receptacles and containers shall be kept secure from
unauthorized entry to prevent scavenging and theft of recyclable
materials;	(13)	the area for depositing Recyclable Materials and/or enclosure
shall not impair traffic flow nor diminish the required parking spaces except
that up to 10 percent of the required parking spaces may be used as part of the
area utilized for Recyclable Materials; provided, however, that if the area for
depositing Recyclable Materials is abandoned, then the parking spaces shall be
reestablished;	(14)	any activity involving baling and hand sorting of Recyclable
Materials, as well as automated can conveyor/magnetic or mechanical separators,
and crushers for can, glass, or plastic bottles, is conducted in compliance with
Section 12.19A4(b)(1) of this Code.	(15)	at least one trash receptacle shall be
provided within a recycling site;	(16)	the area for collection of Recyclable
Materials, and all driveways, parking areas, storage areas, and loading zones
shall be paved and maintained in good condition;	(17)	a source of running water
shall be maintained on the site; and	(18)	no Recycling Center Operator shall
permit loitering, camping, public begging, consumption of alcoholic beverages,
use of illegal narcotics, or any other criminal activity on any premises over
which he has control.	(19)	An administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by
the Department of Building and Safety pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Paragraph (g) of this subdivision for any violation of the provisions of this
paragraph.	(e)	Recycling Materials Sorting Facilities shall be permitted in all
M and MR Zones without obtaining a conditional use permit pursuant to Section
12.24U22(d), provided that all of the following conditions are met:  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)	(1)	the facility is located at least 1,000
feet from any A, R, C, P, or PB Zone or use;	(2)	the facility shall be operated
by a Recycling Center Operator or Junk Dealer;	(3)	notwithstanding any other
provisions of the Code, no processing of Recyclable Materials, shall be
permitted at the facility;	(4)	Recyclable Materials to be sorted shall be
limited to paper, cardboard, glass, metal, plastic and other items that are
deemed appropriate by the Department of Building and Safety, Bureau of
Sanitation, and Fire Department;	(5)	the hours of operation shall be limited to
7 a.m. to 8 p.m., seven days a week, if the facility is located within 1,000
feet of an A or R Zone or any residential use.  Otherwise, operation may be 24
hours a day.  All operations must comply with Section 111.03 of this Code. The
facility and all related activities shall be administered by on-site personnel
during the hours the center is open;	(6)	no depositing of Recyclable Materials
shall be permitted during hours the center is not open;	(7)	the facility shall
be clearly identified with the operator’s name, address, telephone number,
hours of operation and a notice stating that no material shall be left outside
the recycling center enclosure;	(8)	Recycling Receptacles shall be provided that
are durable, waterproof, rustproof and of incombustible construction and of a
capacity which are sufficient to accommodate the materials
collected;	(9)	automated sorting and separating machinery shall be permitted,
provided that the machinery is conducted in compliance with Section
12.19A4(b)(1) of this Code;	(10)	adequate parking, loading, and drive through
space to accommodate customers, shall be provided as required in Section
12.19A4(b)(4) of this Code;	(11)	the facility shall be maintained in a clean,
safe and sanitary condition on a daily basis;	(12)	a source of running water
shall be maintained on the site;	(13)	the facility shall utilize some type of
dust mitigation and/or wind mitigation measures to prevent blowing
debris;	(14)	the facility shall comply with the other limitations as set forth
in Section 12.19A4(b) of this Code;	(15)	the facility shall be surrounded by a
6-foot high concrete block wall and a 5-foot landscaped buffer, approved by the
City Planning Department as provided in Section 12.21A6(i) of this Code,
adjoining all street frontages; and	(16)	no Recycling Center Operator shall
permit loitering, camping, public begging, consumption of alcoholic beverages,
use of illegal narcotics, or any other criminal activity on any premises over
which he has control.	(17)	An administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by
the Department of Building and Safety pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Paragraph (g) of this subdivision for any violation of the provisions of this
paragraph.	(f)	Recycling Materials Processing Facilities shall be permitted in
the M2 and M3 Zones without obtaining a conditional use permit pursuant to
Section 12.24U22(c) of this Code, provided that all of the following conditions
are met:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	(1)	the
facility shall be located at least 1,000 feet from any A, R, C, P, PB, MR, or M1
Zone or use;	(2)	the facility shall be operated by a Recycling Center Operator
or Junk Dealer;	(3)	notwithstanding any other provisions of the Code, Recyclable
Materials collected and processed on the site shall be limited to paper,
cardboard, glass, metal, plastic and other items that are deemed appropriate by
the Department of Building and Safety, Bureau of Sanitation, and Fire
Department;	(4)	hours of operation shall be limited to 7 a.m. to 8 p.m., seven
days a week, if the facility is located within 1,000 feet of an A or R Zone or
any residential use.  Otherwise, operation may be 24 hours a day.  All
operations must comply with Section 111.03 of this Code. The facility and all
related activities shall be administered by on-site personnel during the hours
the center is open;	(5)	no depositing of Recyclable Materials shall be permitted
during hours the center is not open;	(6)	the facility shall be clearly
identified with the operator’s name, address, telephone number, hours of
operation and a notice stating that no material shall be left outside the
recycling center enclosure;	(7)	if Recycling Receptacles are used for storage of
materials on site, they shall be durable, waterproof, rustproof, and of
incombustible construction;	(8)	processing machinery, such as weighing scales
and crushing and separating machines shall be permitted, provided that the
machinery is conducted in compliance with Section 12.19A4(b)(1) of this
Code;	(9)	the facility shall provide adequate parking, loading, and drive
through space to accommodate customers, as required in Section 12.19A4(b)(4) of
this Code;	(10)	the facility shall be maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary
condition on a daily basis;	(11)	a source of running water shall be maintained
on the site;	(12)	the facility shall utilize some type of dust mitigation and/or
wind mitigation measures to prevent blowing debris;	(13)	the facility shall
comply with the other limitations as set forth in Section 12.19A4(b) of this
Code;	(14)	the facility shall be surrounded by a 6-foot high concrete block wall
and a 5-foot landscaped buffer, approved by the City Planning Department as
provided in Section 12.21A6(i) of this Code, adjoining all street frontages;
and	(15)	no Recycling Center Operator shall permit loitering, camping, public
begging, consumption of alcoholic beverages, use of illegal narcotics, or any
other criminal activity on any premises over which he has control.	(16)	An
administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by the Department of Building
and Safety pursuant to the procedures set forth in Paragraph (g) of this
subdivision for any violation of the provisions of this paragraph.	(g)	An
administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by the Department of Building
and Safety for any violation of the provisions of this subdivision pursuant to
the following provisions.	(1)	Definitions.  As used in this subparagraph the
term “Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the Department of Building
and Safety.  The term “Department” means the Department of Building and
Safety.	(2)	Notice to Comply.  For any use found to be in violation of Section
12.21A18, the Superintendent shall send a Notice to Comply to the owner of the
property and the operator of the use.  The Notice to Comply shall clearly state
the following:	(i)	The violation must be corrected by a Compliance Date
specified in the Notice, which date shall be no more than 15 days from the date
the Notice is mailed.	(ii)	Failure to correct the violation on or before the
Compliance Date may result in the imposition of an administrative fine in the
amount of $250.00.	(iii)	Repeated violations can result in nuisance abatement
procedures under the provisions of the Code.	(3)	Reinspection.  The
Superintendent shall reinspect a property for which a Notice to Comply was
issued pursuant to this paragraph subsequent to the Compliance Date.	(4)	Failure
to Correct Violation.  If any violation specified in the Notice to Comply is
not corrected prior to the Compliance Date as specified in the Notice to Comply,
an administrative fine of $250.00 may be collected by the Department.	If the
Department determines that a fine is due, then it shall notify the person cited
by United States mail in a sealed envelope, with postage paid, addressed to the
last known address of the person cited as the address appears in the last
equalized assessment roll.  Service of the notice shall be deemed to have been
completed at the time of deposit with the United States Postal Service.	The
person cited shall remit the fine to the Department within 30 days after the
date of mailing the notice.  If the person cited fails to do so, then the
Department, by sending a second notification by certified mail, may demand
payment of the fine from the person cited and may prohibit the issuance of any
building permit, license or approval to the cited person until such fees are
paid.	(5)	Appeals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Appeals may be made from a Notice to Comply issued by the Department pursuant to
this subdivision pursuant to Section 12.26K.	19.	Areas For Collecting And
Loading Recyclable Materials.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff.
8/19/97.)	(a)	Purpose.  In accordance with state regulations regarding
recycling facilities, these provisions that require adequate areas for
collecting and loading Recyclable Materials serve to divert solid waste and
address source reduction, recycling, and composting
activities.	(b)	Definitions.  As used in this subdivision, the term
“development project” shall mean any of the following:	(1)	The issuance of a
building permit for a commercial, industrial, or institutional building where
solid waste generated by the facility is collected and loaded.	(2)	The issuance
of a building permit for a marina where solid waste generated by the facility is
collected and loaded.  For the purpose of this definition, the floor area of a
marina is the space dedicated to the docking or mooring of marine
vessels.	(3)	Any new public facility where solid waste generated by the facility
is collected and loaded, or any improvements to an area of an existing public
facility used to collect and load solid waste generated by the facility.  For
purposes of this definition, a public facility includes but is not limited to
buildings, structures, marinas, and outdoor recreation areas owned by a local
agency.	(4)	The issuance of a building permit for a residential building having
four or more living units where solid waste generated by the units is collected
and loaded.	(5)	The issuance of a building permit for four or more residential
units, including detached single-family homes, where solid waste generated by
the units is collected and loaded and serves all four or more
units.	(c)	Requirements for Recycling Areas or Rooms in a Development Project. 
All new development projects, all existing multiple-family residential
development projects of four or more units where the addition of floor area is
25 percent or more, and all other existing development projects where the
addition of floor area is 30 percent or more, shall provide an adequate
Recycling Area or Room, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, for collection
and loading of Recyclable Materials.  When a new development project provides a
Trash Chute or an existing development project adds a Trash Chute, a Recycling
Chute shall also be provided in both cases.  Recycling Chutes shall be clearly
marked “recycling only” at every point of entry.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,227, Eff. 9/1/10.)	Any existing development project for which multiple
building permits are issued within a 12-month period which results in the
expansion of the existing development project beyond the above thresholds shall
also provide a Recycling Area or Room.	The Recycling Area or Room shall be
available for use by persons residing or employed on the property, but shall be
kept secured from unauthorized entry by the general public.  No payment shall
be made to persons depositing Recyclable Materials and no processing of
Recyclable Materials shall be permitted, except for periodic loading of
materials into a vehicle for removal from the site.  The following requirements
shall also apply:	(1)	It shall be the responsibility of the property owner and
lessee to supply and maintain Recycling Area(s) or Room(s) and Recycling
Receptacles that are adequate for the collection of all Recyclable Materials
generated by the use(s) occupying the site;	(2)	The Recycling Area or Room shall
comply with the following standards for minimum size:	(i)	for multiple-family
residential uses of 20 or less dwelling units, or commercial, industrial or
institutional uses with a total floor area of less than 3,000 square feet, the
minimum Recycling Area or Room shall be 30 square feet;	(ii)	for multiple-family
residential uses of 21 to 50 dwelling units, or commercial, industrial or
institutional uses having a total floor area of 3,001 to 7,500 square feet, the
minimum Recycling Area or Room shall be 60 square feet;	(iii)	for
multiple-family residential uses of 51 or more dwelling units, or commercial,
industrial or institutional uses having a total floor area of greater than 7,500
square feet, the minimum Recycling Area or Room shall be 100 square
feet;	(iv)	every Recycling Area or Room shall contain a minimum vertical space
of at least eight feet;	(3)	The Recycling Area or Room shall be of adequate size
for the collection of all Recyclable Materials generated by the use(s) occupying
the site, without such materials overflowing the area or forcing significant
amounts of Recyclable Materials to be discarded as general refuse, or the
Department of Building and Safety shall determine the area to be inadequate and
require a larger space, even if the area provided exceeds the minimum
requirements listed in Subparagraph 2 above;	(4)	To encourage active
participation in recycling to the maximum extent possible, each property owner,
manager, or lessee shall inform all tenants and/or employees living or working
on the property of the availability and location of the Recycling Area(s) or
Room(s), the types of materials that are collected for recycling, that the
recycling collection facilities are located on the property pursuant to state
law requiring the diversion of a substantial portion of solid waste;	(5)	Each
property owner or lessee shall contract with a recycler or hauler for the
pick-up of Recyclable Materials, separate from trash collection, when
receptacles are full or every week, whichever occurs first;	(6)	No toxic or
hazardous material shall be stored in Recycling Areas or Rooms recycling or
receptacles;	(7)	All Recyclable Materials shall be placed or stored in Recycling
Receptacles.  Paper products and other lightweight materials shall be
immediately placed into covered Recycling Receptacles when they are dropped
off;	(8)	On a daily basis the Recycling Area or Room shall be kept free of
litter, debris, spillage, bugs, rodents, odors, and other similar undesirable
hazards;	(9)	The Recycling Area or Room shall be clearly identified by one or
more signs designating it for recycling collection and loading;	(10)	The
Recycling Area or Room shall be available for use by persons residing or
employed on the property, but shall be kept secured from unauthorized entry by
the general public;	(11)	Recycling Areas or Rooms shall not diminish the
required number of parking spaces or impair traffic flow;	(12)	Recycling Areas
or Rooms shall be placed alongside of trash areas or rooms wherever possible and
shall comply with the following:  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,227, Eff.
9/1/10.)	(i)	Recycling Rooms shall comply with Section 91.6102 of this Code and
must be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system pursuant to Section
57.21.04A3 of this Code.	(ii)	outdoor Recycling Areas in commercial, industrial,
or public facilities, or residential buildings having four or more living units
shall be confined to the rear one-half of the lot and shall not exceed an area
of 300 square feet.	(iii)	outdoor Recycling Areas shall be completely enclosed
by an eight-foot wall or chain link fence with wooden slates, concrete block, or
similar construction (enclosure) with gates of the same height.  No material
shall exceed the height of the wall or fence.  The enclosure shall be
constructed with a concrete floor sloped to drain, and a water faucet for hose
attachment shall be located adjacent to or within the enclosure.  The enclosure
shall be secured by a locking gate.	(iv)	pursuant to Section 57.21.04A2 of the
Code, outdoor Recycling Areas shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from any
building or building opening except when located adjacent to a minimum one-hour
wall and a minimum of 10 feet from any building opening.	20.	(Added by Ord. No.
174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)  Wireless Telecommunication Facilities (WTF) Standards
– Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to the contrary, the following
standards shall apply to the placement of all wireless telecommunication
facilities.  These standards shall not apply to satellite dish antennae, radio
and television transmitters and antennae incidental to residential
use.	(a)	General Requirements	(1)	Antenna Requirements.  The antenna on any
monopole or support structure must meet the minimum siting distances to
habitable structures required for compliance with Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) regulations and standards governing the environmental effects
of radio frequency emissions.  The grouping of WTF on a site is encouraged
where technically feasible.  The footing of the antenna shall be structurally
designed to support a monopole which is at least 15 feet higher than the
monopole under review, while being within the applicable requirements of the
height district, in order to allow a future wireless network to replace an
existing monopole with a new monopole capable of supporting co-location.	If it
is determined that additional height is necessary to support co-location, the
Zoning Administrator is authorized to consider reasonable modifications to pole
height, and the co-location of additional equipment within the 15 feet extension
limit pursuant to Section 12.24W49 of this Code.	Monopoles, dishes and other
antenna equipment not regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
shall have a non-reflective  finish to minimize the visibility of the structure
and not be illuminated, unless required by the FAA.	(2)	Antenna
Setback	(i)	Monopole setback.  Monopoles shall be designed at the minimum
functional height.  All monopoles shall be set back a distance equal to 20
percent of the height of the monopole, from all abutting streets, residential
uses, and in all zones, or areas with access to the public, unless a qualified
structural engineer specifies in writing that any collapse of the pole will
occur within a lesser distance under all foreseeable circumstances.	The monopole
shall be certified by a professional structural engineer licensed in the State
of California to meet any structural standards for steel antenna towers and
structures set in the Electronic Industries Association/Telecommunications
Industries Association Standards referenced as EIA/TIA-222-E and as amended. 
Monopoles shall meet the main building setback requirements of the underlying
zone.  The setback shall be sufficient to:	a.	provide for an adequate
vegetative, topographic or other buffer as set forth in Subparagraph (5)
(Screening) and (6) (Landscaping) of Paragraph (a) of this
subsection;	b.	preserve the privacy of adjoining residential property;
and	c.	protect adjoining property from the potential impact of pole
failure.	(ii)	Attached or Roof Mounted Antenna Setback.  Roof mounted antennas
shall be located at the greatest feasible distance from the edge of the
building.  Equipment facilities and antennas shall not extend more than ten
feet above the highest point of the roof top, unless mounted on the walls of a
penthouse.	(3)	Locating Antenna at Existing Sites.  An effort shall be made to
locate new WTF on existing approved structures or sites, when
feasible.	(4)	Visual impact.  The WTF shall be designed to have the least
possible visual impact on the environment, taking into consideration technical,
engineering, economic and other pertinent factors.  Antennas clustered at the
same site shall be of the same general height and facilities of the same
design.	(5)	Screening	(i)	Ground, roof and pole mounted antennas shall be
screened by fencing, buildings or parapets that appear to be an integral part of
the building or landscaping so that not more than 25 percent of the combined
tower structure and antenna height is visible from grade level of adjoining
property and adjoining public rights-of-way.	(ii)	Dish antennas shall not be
light reflective or have any sign copy on them nor shall they be illuminated,
unless required by the FAA.	(iii)	Building mounted antennas shall be screened
from view under most circumstances, if the antennas would otherwise be visible
to adjacent properties and adjacent public rights-of-way.	Omni-directional
antennas may not be required to be screened if it is demonstrated that the
screening device would create a greater visual impact than the unscreened
antennas.	The screening shall include parapets, walls or similar architectural
elements provided that it is painted and textured to integrate with the
architecture of the building.	As an alternative screening method, landscaping
positioned on the premises to screen antennas from adjacent properties may be
proposed in lieu of, or in combination with, architectural screening.  Antennas
shall be mounted on the parapet, penthouse wall or facade, building mounted
antennas shall be painted and textured or otherwise architecturally integrated
to match the existing building.	(iv)	Support structure antennas shall be placed
on premises to minimize visual impacts to adjacent non-industrial properties and
adjacent public rights-of-way.  Landscaping shall be positioned on the premises
to minimize the visual impacts to adjacent non-industrial properties and
adjacent public rights-of-way.	(v)	Accessory equipment and associated equipment
facilities shall be located either in an interior space in the existing building
or in an attached or detached exterior building.  Exterior equipment buildings
constructed on premises shall be architecturally similar to the existing
building or otherwise architecturally integrated.	(vi)	Monopoles shall be of
tapered design (e.g., three foot base to 1.5 foot top) with no climbing
spikes.  Whenever possible, existing light standards in parking lots should be
used with antennas above electroliers.	(6)	Landscaping and Maintenance. 
Landscaping shall be required at the perimeter of the property which abuts
streets, residential uses, and in all zones, or areas with access to the public
as follows:	(i)	For monopoles, a landscaped buffer area to soften the visual
impact shall commence at the property line.  At least one row of shrubs shall
be spaced not more than three feet apart.  Materials shall be of a variety
which can be expected to grow to form a continuous hedge at least five feet in
height within two years of planting.  At least one row of trees or shrubs, not
less than four feet in height at the time of planting, and spaced not more than
15 feet apart, also shall be provided.  Appropriate irrigation and maintenance
to sustain any required landscaping shall be required.	(ii)	Pursuant to Section
12.24 W.49. of this Code, the decision-maker may allow use of an alternate
detailed plan and specifications for landscaping and screening, including
plantings, fences, walls, sign and structural applications, manufactured devices
and other features designed to screen, camouflage and buffer antennas, poles and
accessory uses.  The antenna and supporting structure or monopole shall be of a
design and treated with an architectural material so that it is camouflaged to
resemble a tree with a single trunk and branches on its upper part, or shall be
designed using other similar stealth techniques.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103,
Eff. 12/18/05.)	(7)	Signal Interference.  Claims of interference with the
operations of any business or residential use due to the operations of the
facility shall be subject to correction by the permittee.  Any claim shall be
reviewed by a qualified, mutually agreeable third party who will test actual
site conditions and propose mitigation of any interference determined to be due
to the operation of the facility.	(8)	Time Limits.  All wireless
telecommunication facilities shall be removed within 90 days of discontinuance
of use.	(b)	Application Requirements Checklist For Discretionary Actions.   In
addition to the submittal requirements prescribed for conditional use permits
pursuant to Section 12.24W49 of this Code, an application for approval of a new,
modified or additional wireless telecommunication facilities shall contain all
of the following information:	(1)	Site Plan.  Site Plans or plot plans, drawn
to scale, and elevation drawings, including “before” and “after”
photographs specifying the location of antennas, support structures, power
poles, utility boxes, transmission building and/or other accessory uses, access,
parking, fences, signs, landscaped areas and adjacent land uses.  A listing of
the applicant’s existing wireless telecommunication facilities shall also be
included.  Plans and drawings shall demonstrate compliance with the siting
distances of Subparagraph (1) (Antenna Requirements) and Subparagraph (2)
(Antenna Setback) of Paragraph (a) of this subdivision.	(2)	Landscape and
Irrigation Plan.  A Landscaping and Irrigation Plan, drawn to scale, and
elevation drawings including “before” and “after” photographs indicating
size, spacing and type of plantings required in Subparagraph (6) of Paragraph
(a) (Landscaping), and indicating steps to be taken to provide screening as
required in Subparagraph (5) of Paragraph (a) (Screening) to meet the visual
impact standard of Subparagraph (4) of Paragraph (a) (Visual Impact) of this
subdivision.	(3)	Structural Integrity Report.  A Structural Integrity Report
from a professional engineer licensed in the State of California documenting the
following:	(i)	Tower height and design, including technical, engineering,
economic, and other pertinent factors governing selection of the proposed
design;	(ii)	Total anticipated capacity of the structure, including number and
types of antennas which can be accommodated;	(iii)	Failure characteristics of
the tower and demonstration that site and setbacks are of adequate size to
contain debris in the event of failure; and	(iv)	Specific design and
reconstruction plans to allow shared use.  (This submission is required only in
the event that the applicant intends to share use of the facility by subsequent
reinforcement and reconstruction of the WTF.)	(4)	FAA and FCC Coordination. 
Statements regarding the regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), respectively,
that:	(i)	(required only if the WTF is near an airfield) the application has not
been found to be a hazard to air navigation under Part 77, Federal Aviation,
Federal Aviation Regulations, or a statement from the applicant that no
compliance with Part 77 is required, and the reasons therefor;
and/or	(ii)	(required of all WTF applicants) the application complies with the
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, or a statement from the
applicant that compliance is not necessary, and the reasons
therefor.	(5)	Evidence of Co-location Efforts.  Evidence submitted to the
Department of City Planning on those requiring discretionary review pursuant to
Section 12.24W49 of this Code or to the Department of Building and Safety for
those that are permitted by right prior to the issuance of a building permit,
that an effort was made to locate on an existing WTF site including
coverage/interference analysis and capacity analysis and a brief statement as to
other reasons for success or no success, including a listing of alternative
sites that were examined, as set forth in Subparagraph (3) Locating Antenna at
Existing Sites) and Subparagraph (5) (Screening) of Paragraph (a) of this
subdivision.	(6)	Existing Facilities Information.  A listing of addresses and
type (i.e., monopole, antenna) of all WTF’s within the City of Los Angeles
which are operated by the applicant.	(7)	Coverage/Capacity Report (Propagation
Study).  A coverage/interference analysis and capacity analysis (also known as
a propagation study) that the location and height of the antennas as proposed is
necessary to meet the frequency re-use and spacing needs of the system and to
provide adequate wireless telecommunication coverage and capacity to areas which
cannot be adequately served by locating the antennas in a less restrictive zone
or that an effort was made to locate on existing sites or towers, with no
success.	(c)	Approval Criteria.  In addition to the findings for approval
required pursuant to Section 12.24W49 of this Code, a Zoning Administrator may
allow a new, modified or additional wireless telecommunication antenna or
facility use based on additional findings that the following criteria are
met:	(1)	The site is of a size and shape sufficient to provide the following
setbacks:	(i)	For a monopole or tower, the tower setback requirements of
Subparagraph (2) (Antenna Setback) of Paragraph (a) of this subdivision are met
as to those portions of the property abutting the residential or public
uses.	(ii)	For all other towers or monopoles, the site shall be of sufficient
size to provide the setback required in the underlying zone between the base of
the tower, accessory structures and uses, and guy anchors, if any, to all
abutting property lines.	(2)	The required setbacks shall be improved to meet the
screening and landscaping standards of Subparagraph (5) (Screening) and
Subparagraph (6) (Landscaping) of Paragraph (a) of this subdivision to the
extent possible within the area provided.	(3)	The visual impact standard of
Subparagraph (4) of Paragraph (a) of this subdivision is met; and	(4)	An effort
in good faith was made by the applicant to locate on existing sites or
facilities in accordance with the guidelines of Subparagraph (3) (Locating
Antenna at Existing Sites) of Paragraph (a) of this subdivision.	(d)	Variations
From The Citywide Wireless Telecommunication Standards.  The Zoning
Administrator shall have the authority to consider requests to vary from these
standards pursuant to Section 12.24 W.49. of this Code.	21.	(Added by Ord. No.
177,120, Eff. 12/26/05.)  Rooftop Wireless Telecommunications Facilities –
Notwithstanding Subdivision 20., above, wireless antennas, including the
associated equipment cabinets, are permitted by right, including those within
any geographic specific plan areas, when located on the rooftops of buildings in
the C and M Zones.  However, these wireless antennas and associated equipment
cabinets are not permitted by right pursuant to this subdivision on the rooftops
of buildings located within a scenic parkway specific plan, scenic corridor
specific plan, a roadway designated as a scenic highway within a specific plan
area; or buildings that are designated on the National Register of Historic
Places, including Contributing Buildings in National Register Historic
Districts, the California Register of Historic Resources, the City of Los
Angeles List of Historic-Cultural Monuments, or a Contributing Structure located
in an Historic Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ) that has been established
pursuant to Section 12.20.3 of this Code.  The following standards shall apply
to wireless antennas and the associated equipment cabinets permitted by this
subdivision:	(a)	The antenna and any equipment cabinet are located on rooftops
which are at least 40 feet in height above grade, provided the wireless antennas
and associated equipment cabinets do not exceed any applicable height
limit;	(b)	The antenna and any equipment cabinet are enclosed on all sides,
including the roof, with a fiberglass or similar covering material for screening
approved by the Department of Building and Safety.  Notwithstanding LAMC
Section 12.03, the area under such enclosure shall not be considered floor
area;	(c)	The structure covering the antenna and any equipment cabinet is
painted and textured to match the exterior walls of the building;	(d)	The total
of all the wireless antenna structures and associated equipment cabinets on a
rooftop does not cover more than 10 percent of the total area of the roof;
and	(e)	The height of any wireless antenna structures and associated equipment
cabinets is limited to ten feet above the highest point of the rooftop, as
measured from immediately adjacent to the rooftop surface where the wireless
antenna structures and associated equipment cabinets are located unless mounted
on the walls of a penthouse, in which case the wireless antenna structures and
associated equipment cabinets shall not exceed the height of the penthouse;
and	(f)	Prior to issuance of any building permit authorizing the rooftop
installation of a wireless antenna structure and associated equipment cabinets,
the permit applicant shall provide the Department of Building and Safety with
evidence that the council district office where the site of the proposed
installation is located has been given a 20-day written notice prior to the
issuance of such permit. This notification shall contain the name and address of
the building permit applicant and the property address of the proposed
installation and the approximate date of start of installation. This
notification shall be by certified mail, return receipt requested.	Wireless
antennas and rooftop equipment cabinets which do not meet these standards shall
require a conditional use permit pursuant to Section 12.24 W.49. of this
Code.	22.	(Added by Ord. No. 177,244, Eff. 2/18/06.)  Cargo Container Storage
Yard.  Cargo container storage yards may be permitted by right in the M3
Zone.  The following standards shall apply to all cargo container storage
yards, except those located in whole or in part within the boundaries of the
Port of Los Angeles Community Plan Area.	(a)	The following provisions apply to
the stacking of cargo containers:	(1)	The stacking of cargo containers more than
20 feet high shall only be permitted if a structural analysis done by a licensed
engineer or architect in the State of California is submitted to and approved by
the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety (LADBS).	(2)	Cargo container
stacking within 300 feet or less of a residential zone shall be limited to a
maximum height of 30 feet. There is no maximum container height limit beyond 300
feet of a residential zone, except as limited by any applicable height
limitation and Paragraph (h)(1) below.	(b)	Cargo container storage yards shall
obtain a “use of land” permit from LADBS for one or more contiguous lots
maintained as one site.	(c)	The perimeter of each site with a separate “use of
land” permit shall be enclosed by a minimum eight-foot high fence or
wall.	(1)	Fencing may be constructed of chain-link, however fencing adjacent to
a Class I or II Major Highway shall also comply with Paragraph (h)(3) below;
and	(2)	Fencing shall be maintained in good condition and appearance.  All
walls, fences and other structures shall be maintained free of graffiti;
and	(3)	Sheet metal shall be prohibited as a fencing material; and	(4)	There
shall be no requirement to fence each individual lot where multiple lots are
maintained as one site under a valid “use of land” permit, including
individual lots that may be separated by a public right-of-way, easement or
other land occupied by a revocable permit.	(d)	The entire site shall be graded
pursuant to Chapter IX of this Code.	(e)	All driveways, access ways and parking
areas shall be covered with a decomposed granite, crushed gravel or similar
material and be treated with dust control methods.	(f)	An annual site inspection
shall be conducted by LADBS pursuant to Section 12.26 F. of this Code.	(g)	All
containers must be empty and cleaned of any residue which may pose any kind of
physical or health risk.	(h)	In addition to the above specified requirements,
the following conditions shall also apply to sites that are located adjacent to
a Class I or II Major Highway.  However, for those portions of the site that
are separated from the roadway by a grade change of more than ten feet within
five feet of the property line, Subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph
shall not apply:	(1)	Cargo container stacking shall be limited to a maximum
height of 20 feet within 20 feet of the property line adjoining a Class I or II
Major Highway.  There is no maximum cargo container height limit beyond 20 feet
of a Class I or II Major Highway, except as limited by Paragraph (a)
above.	(2)	A minimum five foot setback shall be provided along the street
frontage adjacent to a Class I or II Major Highway.  The setback shall be fully
landscaped with drought resistant plants, ground cover and trees; with one
minimum 15-gallon size tree planted for each 15 linear feet of street frontage
and minimum three shrubs for each tree.  The entire landscaped area shall be
well maintained at all times.	(3)	A solid wall or fence shall be required on the
street frontage adjacent to a Class I or II Major Highway.  The wall or fence
shall be located within the required setback, and at the rear of the landscaped
area between the landscaping and the use.  A chain-link fence with slats and
growing vines may be permitted in place of a solid wall or
fence.	B.	(None)	C.	Area	1.	Area Regulation – (Exceptions are provided for in
Sec. 12.22- C)	(a)	No building or structure shall be erected or maintained and
no existing building shall be enlarged, moved or maintained unless all the area
regulations are complied with for the zone in which they are located.	A zoning
law which prescribes a minimum area for residential lots is valid and
constitutional and is not objectional upon retroactive grounds in destroying the
owner’s vested property rights, but it looks only to the future in guiding a
pattern of home development in the enhancement of the public interest, and a
sale of a piece of property which contain less than the minimum area is
voidable.
	Clemons v. City of Los Angeles, 36 Cal. 2d 95.	A sale of property in violation
of the ordinance is voidable at the instance of the buyer.
	Harland v. Noto. 105 Cal. App. 2d 740. 743.
	Border v. McClung, 93 Cal. App. 2d 692.	(b)	No required yard or other open
space around an existing building, or which is hereafter provided around any
building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this article, shall
be considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building, nor
shall any yard or any other required open space on an adjoining lot be
considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot wherein a building is to
be erected or established.	No required yard or other open space around a
building shall be located and maintained on property which is in a more
restrictive zone than that of the property on which such building is located;
except that where a lot is partly in the P zone and partly in a C or M zone, any
P zone may be used to meet any yard requirements of the C or M zone, provided
the front yard conforms to the requirements of Section 12.21-C,1(g) and all
unpaved areas of such yards are suitably landscaped. The relationship between
the more restrictive and less restrictive zones shall be determined by the
sequence of zones set forth in Section 12.23-B,1(c).  (2nd Para., Amended by
Ord. No. 151,599, Eff. 11/25/78.)	(c)	Except in the RZ Zone, every main building
shall be located and maintained on a “lot” or “air space lot” as defined
in this article, and all parts of such building shall be connected in a
substantial manner by common walls or a continuous roof. In the RZ Zone a main
building may be located on not more than five lots. There may not be more than
one such building on a lot in the RA, RE, RS, R1, RU, RMP, or RW1 Zones, or on a
group of lots in the RZ Zone. (Amended by Ord. No. 164,904, Eff.
7/6/89.)	Provided, however, there may be more than one main residential building
on a lot in the RW2 Zone, but there shall be no more than one main residential
building for each 2,300 square feet of lot area.	(d)	(Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  No building or structure shall be erected
or maintained on a lot which abuts a street having only a portion of its
required width where no part of the street would normally revert to the lot if
vacated, or which lot is separated from the a street by only a future street,
unless the yards provided and maintained adjacent to the street in connection
with the building or structure have a width or depth, which includes the portion
of the lot needed to complete the required width of the street, plus the width
or depth of the yards required on the lot by other provisions of this article. 
Where a future street intervenes between the lot and the street, the yards shall
be determined as though the lot abutted directly on the future street.  In no
case, shall this regulation be applied so as to reduce the buildable width of a
corner lot to less than 40 feet.	The City Planning Commission, upon request,
shall determine a required street width.  The determination shall be based upon
the standards for street widths contained in the subdivision regulations of the
City, the prevailing widths of streets in the immediate, surrounding area, with
due consideration given to any particular topographical or geological conditions
or sizes of ownership affecting the property involved.	(e)	On any lot of less
than one acre in an “RA” or “R” Zone which was of record or held in
separate ownership on June 1,1946, or was subsequently created either by the
recording of a division of land map or otherwise in accordance with the
applicable zoning regulations, the originally required front yard shall be
provided and maintained on such lot in addition to any new front yard required
by any subsequent rearrangement of the lot lines by sale or division (without
recording a subdivision map) creating a new lot fronting on a different street
than that on which said original lot fronted.  (Amended by Ord. No. 140,717,
Eff. 8/12/70.)	(f)	No accessory building shall be structurally altered,
converted, enlarged or maintained for the purpose of providing living quarters
or dwelling units unless such accessory building and all enlargements thereof
are made to conform to all the regulations of this article for new
buildings.	(g)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Every required
front, side and rear yard shall be open and unobstructed from the ground to the
sky, except for those projections permitted by Sections 12.08.5, 12.09.5 and
12.22.	No automobile parking space shall be provided or maintained within a
required front yard. Except where a lot is developed with a building meeting the
requirements of Section 12.08.3B1, not more than 50 percent of a required front
yard shall be designed, improved or used for access driveways.	All portions of
the required front yard of one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, multiple
dwellings or group dwellings, apartment houses, hotels, motels, apartment hotels
and retirement hotels in the RE, RS, R1, RU, RZ, R2, RD, R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, R5,
or C Zones not used for necessary driveways and walkways, including decorative
walkways, shall be used for planting, and shall not otherwise be paved.  The
planted area in the RD, R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, R5, or C Zones shall be planted in
accordance with a landscape plan prepared by a licensed landscape architect,
licensed architect, or landscape contractor to the satisfaction of the
Department of City Planning.  The planted area shall include at least one tree,
which shall be at least 15 gallon in size and at least six feet in height at the
time of planting, for each 500 square feet of planted area and shall be equipped
with an automatic irrigation system, which shall be properly maintained. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,191, Eff. 11/5/07.)	A fee pursuant to Section 19.01I
shall be paid to the Department of City Planning for the checking of landscape
plans, pursuant to this paragraph. However, the fee shall be waived if any other
fee has been paid for checking of landscape plans for the same property.	No
swimming pool, fish pond or other body of water which is designed or used to
contain water 18 inches or more in depth shall be permitted in any required yard
space in which fences over 3-1/2 feet in height are prohibited, even though the
pool, pond or body of water extends below the adjacent natural ground
level.	(h)	At each end of a through lot there shall be a front yard of the depth
required by this article for the zone in which each street frontage is located,
except that only one front yard need be provided on those through lots which
abut on a primary, major or secondary highway, as such highways are shown on the
“Highways and Freeways Element of the General Plan,” when the rights to
vehicular ingress and egress from such through lots to the highway have been
abandoned or prohibited by a tract restriction as a condition precedent to the
approval of the recordation of the subdivision in which such through lots are
included. Where only one front yard is required on a through lot, as provided
herein, the rear yard shall be located on the portion of such lot adjacent to
the highway.  (Amended by Ord. No. 141,821, Eff. 5/24/71.)	Where a through lot
is less than 150 feet in depth or is developed as a single building site, and
the two required front yards are provided, no rear yard is required.	(i)	No
required yard or other open space around an existing building shall be separated
in ownership from the portion of the lot upon which the building is
located.	(j)	The area of a lot upon which a building or use is located shall not
be reduced below the total area required for all of the dwelling units or guest
rooms contained in the building or required for the specific use, or required
because of the height or total floor area contained in the building, by
separating the ownership of a portion of the lot from that upon which the
building or use is located. No required lot which is provided for a dwelling
unit, guest room, specific use or total floor area within a building shall be
considered as providing the required lot area for any other dwelling unit, guest
room, specific use or total floor area within a building. (Amended by Ord. No.
110,225, Eff. 11/23/57.)	(k)	No lot or parcel of land held under separate
ownership at the time this article becomes effective shall be separated in
ownership or reduced in size below the minimum lot width or lot area required by
this article, nor shall any lot or parcel of land held under separate ownership
at the time this article becomes effective and which has a width or an area less
than that required by this article be further reduced in any manner.	(l)	In
determining the required side and rear yards of a building, any basement
containing habitable rooms shall be considered a story. (Added by Ord. No.
131,309, Eff. 4/24/66,)	See citation under Sec. 12.21-C,l, (a)	2.	Spaces Between
Buildings – Passageways. – When more than one residential building or a rear
residential building is located on a lot or the entrance to a residential
building is not directly from a street, the following passageways and other open
spaces shall be provided and maintained.	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 151,608, Eff.
11/26/78.)  There shall be at least 20 feet of space between every two-story
apartment hotel, apartment house, boarding or rooming house, guest house hotel
or multiple dwelling, and any other main building on the same lot. Such space
may be reduced to 10 feet where the buildings are located on a corner lot and
the space opens directly onto the side street.	In the RD zone there shall be at
least 20 feet of space between every main building and any other main building
on the same lot where either of the buildings contains three or more dwelling
units.	In all other cases there shall be at least 10 feet of space between every
residential building and another main building on the same lot.	The width of the
space herein required shall be increased by two feet for each story over two
contained in any building adjoining said space.	Those regulations do not apply
to the spaces required between accessory buildings (not designed as residential
buildings) and other buildings on the same lot as otherwise provided for in
Subdivision 5 of this subsection.	(b)	There shall be a passageway of at least 10
feet in width extending from a street to one entrance of each dwelling unit or
guest room in every residential building, except those located in the RW, RU, or
RZ Zones, unless there is an entrance to the dwelling unit or guest room opening
directly onto a public street or into a hallway opening into a public street or
onto a l0-foot passageway extending to a public street. In the RW and RZ Zones,
there shall be a passageway at least 4 feet in width, and in the RU Zone, there
shall be a passageway at least 3 feet in width, extending from a street, or
public right-of-way in the case of the RW Zones, to one entrance of each
dwelling unit in every residential building. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff.
12/6/86.)	The passageway shall be increased by two feet in width for each story
over two contained in any building located between the public street and the
building which the passageway serves. The passageway shall be located on the
same lot as the building which it serves.	Where a one story, one or two-family
dwelling has been continuously maintained on the front of a lot since prior to
June 1,1946, with a passageway of less than ten feet but not less than eight
feet in width from the street to the rear of said dwelling, an additional one or
two family dwelling may be erected and maintained on the rear of the lot,
provided the passageway is not further reduced. However, this limited passageway
shall be permitted where there are to be only two residential buildings on the
lot. (Amended by Ord. No. 108,661, Eff. 2/11/57.)	In addition to all other
applicable provisions herein, where a building or portion thereof is constructed
on or within an air space lot, and such building or portion thereof is used for
residential purposes, there shall be a passageway extending from a street to the
entrance of such building on the lot which has had the air space above or below
it divided by such air space lot or lots. (4th Para. Added by Ord. No. 156,681,
Eff. 6/21/82.)	(c)	In computing the width of a passageway where the passageway,
adjoins a lot line, the width of any required yard adjoining such lot line may
be assumed to be a portion of the required width of the passageway.	(d)	Any
space between buildings or any passageway having less width than that required
by this subdivision shall be maintained and shall not be further reduced in any
manner.	(e)	The passageways and other open spaces required by this subdivision
shall be open and unobstructed from ground to sky, except for the projections
permitted by the provisions of Section 12.22 C., and except that Solar
Structures that provide shade over the habitable area may cover up to 25% of the
required open space.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,110, Eff. 5/29/12.)	3.	Yards for
Institutions, Churches, etc. – In the “RA” and “R” Zones, no building,
structure or land shall be used and no building shall be erected, structurally
altered, converted, enlarged or maintained for a hospital, institution, church,
library, museum or other similar use, unless the following yards are provided
and maintained:	(a)	For hospitals, institutions or similar uses, there shall be
a side yard on each side of said buildings of not less than 20% of the width of
the lot (except as permitted by (c) hereof, but such side yard need not exceed
25 feet, and shall be not less than ten feet in width where said yard adjoins
another lot in an “RA” or “R” Zone.	(b)	For churches, clubs, educational
institutions, elementary and high schools, libraries or museums, the combined
widths of the two side yards on an interior lot shall be not less than 40% of
the width of the lot, but need not exceed 50 feet, and on either an interior lot
or a corner lot the side yard adjoining another lot in an “RA” or “R”
Zone shall be not less than ten feet in width.	(c)	The side or rear yard
required for the buildings referred to in (a) and (b) hereof, which adjoin
property in a “C”, “CM” or “M” Zone, or the side yard which adjoins
the street side of a corner lot, may be the same as required for buildings in
the “R4” Zone. (Sec. 12.11 C.2. and 3.);	(d)	All other yards in connection
with buildings referred to in (a) and (b) hereof, shall comply with the
regulations on the zone in which the building is located.	(e)	For hospitals,
institutions, churches, libraries, museums or other similar uses located in a
building which combines residential and commercial uses pursuant to Section
12.22 A.18. (developments combining residential and commercial uses), the yard
requirements set forth in Section 12.22 A.18.(c) shall apply. (Added by Ord. No.
156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.)	(f)	(Added by Ord. No. 156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, for
hospitals, institutions, churches, libraries, museums or other similar uses not
located in a building which combines residential and commercial uses, the
Director of Planning may apply the yard requirements set forth in Section 12.22
A.18.(c) if he finds:	(1)	the use is on a separate lot or air space lot from the
residential or commercial uses,	(2)	the use is an integral part of a project
which combines residential and commercial uses,	(3)	the yards permitted by
Section 12.22 A.18.(c) are compatible to the surrounding uses.	4.	Tennis or
Paddle Tennis Court Construction and Operation Standards and Regulations. 
(Added by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  To establish
construction and operation standards and regulations for tennis or paddle tennis
courts constructed in the A and R Zones if the courts are accessory to the
primary residential use of the subject lots.  The standards and regulations may
include, but are not limited to: hours of use, type of intensity of lighting and
the height and type of windscreens.  The standards and regulations shall
reasonably restrict and minimize any detrimental effect of the location and
design and use of the courts on the occupants of adjoining properties and the
neighborhood.	5.	Location of Accessory Buildings and Tennis or Paddle Tennis
Courts – No accessory building or tennis or paddle tennis court shall be
constructed, erected or maintained and no existing accessory building or tennis
or paddle tennis court shall be structurally altered, converted, enlarged, moved
or maintained unless such accessory building or tennis or paddle tennis court is
located on the lot in conformance with the following regulations: (Amended by
Ord. No. 151,466, Eff. 10/27/78.)	(a)	In the “A” and “R” Zones, every
animal keeping structure for the housing of equines, cattle, sheep, goats,
swine, or other similar animals shall be located on the rear half of a lot, but
need not be located more than 100 feet from the front lot line. Every structure
shall be located not less than 25 feet from all side lot lines An animal keeping
structure or enclosure shall neither be located closer than 35 feet from the
habitable rooms of the animal keeper’s dwelling unit nor closer than 75 feet
from the habitable rooms of a neighbor’s dwelling unit. (Amended by Ord. No.
157,144, Eff. 11/22/82.)	(b)	In the A and R Zones, all other accessory buildings
(not regulated by Paragraph (a) above or permitted in the front yard of a
sloping lot) shall be located on the rear half of a lot but need not be located
more than 55 feet from a front lot line. In the A1 and A2 Zones, such accessory
building shall be located not less than ten feet from any side street lot line,
and in the RA and R Zones shall be located not closer to the side street lot
line than the width of the side yard required for a main building of the same
height. (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)	(c)	On a reversed corner
lot, an accessory building shall not be located nearer to the side lot line on
the street side of such corner lot than the front yard depth required on the lot
in the rear, nor be located nearer than five feet to the side lot line of such
lot. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)	(d)	In the A and R Zones, all
accessory buildings shall be located not less than ten feet from any main
building or accessory living quarters on the same lot. Provided, however, that
where an accessory building (other than a residential building) is not nearer to
the adjacent lot line than the width of the side yard required for a main
building of the same height, said accessory building and all its projections may
be not less than five feet from the side of a main building and all of its
projections. (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)	(e)	In the A and R
Zones, any recreation room in an accessory building and any accessory building
designed or used in whole or in part as a residential building or accessory
living quarters shall be located not less than five feet from the rear lot line
and not nearer to any side lot line than the width of the side yard required for
a main building of the same height. (Amended by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff.
6/4/62.)	(f)	Two-story accessory buildings shall be located not less than five
feet from the rear lot line and not nearer to any side lot line than the width
of the side yard required for a main building of the same height. (Amended by
Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)	(g)	No accessory building shall be erected or
maintained within ten feet from the center line of an alley. (Amended by Ord.
No. 125,278, Eff. 9/16/63.)	(h)	No accessory building or use shall be located on
a property in a more restrictive zone than that required for the main building
or main use to which it is accessory. The relationship between the more
restrictive and the less restrictive zones shall be determined by the sequence
of the zones set forth in Sec. 12.23-B,1(c), (Amended by Ord. No. 107,091, Eff.
4/13/56.)	(i)	In the C and M Zones an accessory building for a residential
building shall be located in the same manner as permitted in an R Zone. (Added
by Ord. No. 121,925, Eff. 6/4/62.)	(j)	Except as otherwise required in this
subdivision, an accessory building may be located in any portion of a required
rear yard, and may be located on that portion of a required side yard which is
within 30 feet of the rear lot line. An accessory building may be located in a
side yard required for a building more than two stories in height if the
accessory building is not closer than five feet to the side lot line. A
one-story accessory building for a single-family dwelling may be located in that
portion of a required side yard which is within 30 feet of the rear lot line or
in a required side yard if not closer than 75 feet to the front lot line nor
closer than ten feet to the main building. (Added by Ord. No. 125,278, Eff.
9/16/63.)	(k)	In the RA and R Zones where a through lot with no required rear
yard has a depth of 150 feet or more, an accessory building shall not extend
into either required front yard, except that it need not be more than 25 feet
from both front lot lines. (Added by Ord. No. 125,278, Eff. 9/16/63.)	Where such
through lot has a depth of less than 150 feet, an accessory building may be
located in one of the required front yards, if such building is set back from
the front lot line a distance of not less than ten per cent of the lot depth and
does not project beyond the front line of an existing main building along the
frontage, except that such building need not be located more than 25 feet from
both front lot lines.	No accessory building on a through lot shall be nearer to
any side lot line than the width of the side yard required for a main building
of the same height.	(l)	A private garage may be located on the required front
yard of a lot having a slope conforming to that specified in Section 12.22-C,6,
provided every portion of the garage building is at least five feet from the
front lot line. Where the wall of such garage is two-thirds below the natural or
finished grade of the lot, whichever is lower, said wall may extend to the
adjacent side lot line; in all other cases, said garage shall not be nearer to
the side lot line than the width of the side yard required for a main building
of the same height. (Added by Ord. No. 125,278, Eff. 9/16/63.)	(m)	Tennis or
paddle tennis courts, including fences and light standards accessory thereto,
which are accessory to a primary residential use on the same lot in the A or R
zones, shall observe the same side, front and rear yards required for a
one-story main building in the zone in which they are located, except as
otherwise provided in Section 12.22-C 20 (m) of this code. (Added by Ord. No.
151,466, Eff. 10/27/78.)	6.	Loading Space.	(a)	A loading space shall be provided
and maintained on the same lot with every hospital, hotel, or institution
building.  A loading space shall be provided and maintained on the same lot
with every building in the C or M Zones where the lot on which said building is
located abuts an alley, provided that when the lot is occupied by a use, such as
a service station or a drive-in business, in which the building covers less than
the total buildable area, a suitable loading space must be provided, but it need
not comply with all the provisions of this section if its location, size and
means of access are approved by the Department of Building and Safety. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,769, Eff. 9/26/02.)	EXCEPTION:  No loading space shall
be required on a lot that abuts an alley in the C Zone when all the buildings
are erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained and used solely as
dwellings or apartment houses.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,769, Eff.
9/26/02.)	(b)	Every required loading space shall be so located and arranged that
delivery vehicles may be driven upon or into said space from the alley. Such
loading space shall have a minimum height of 14 feet and shall be directly
accessible through a usable door not less than three feet in width and not less
than six feet six inches in height opening from the building it is to serve.
(Amended by Ord. No. 138,685, Eff. 7/10/69.)	(c)	Every required loading space
shall have a minimum area of 400 square feet, a minimum width of 20 feet
measured along the alley line, and a minimum depth of ten feet measured
perpendicularly to the alley line except as hereafter provided in this
Subsection. Such loading space may be furnished within a building where said
building is designed and arranged to include accessible loading space equivalent
to that required by this subdivision.	(d)	The required loading space shall have
a minimum area of 600 square feet where the gross floor area of all buildings on
the lot exceeds 50,000 square feet, but not more than 100,000 square feet, a
minimum area of 800 square feet where the gross floor area of all buildings is
between 100,000 and 200,000 square feet, and shall be increased by an additional
200 square feet for each additional 200,000 square feet or fraction thereof of
gross floor area in the building.	(e)	The required loading space, on lots less
40 feet in width, shall extend across the full width of the lot at the alley
line, but need not exceed 10 feet in depth.	(f)	No loading space shall be
required on a lot on which a building, other than a residential building, is to
be erected, structurally altered, or enlarged, and on which there is an existing
separate building being lawfully maintained adjacent to the alley in such manner
as to prevent the establishment of the loading space required by the provisions
of this subdivision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 130,952, Eff. 11/8/65.)	(g)	No
loading space shall be required on unusually shaped lots, oddly located lots, or
on hillside lots, when waived by the Department of Building and Safety as
provided for in Sec. 12.26-B.	(h)	Any loading space being maintained in
connection with an existing main building shall be maintained so long as the
building remains, provided, however, that this regulation shall not require the
maintenance of more loading space than is herein required for a new building,
nor the maintenance of such space in any other zone or for any other buildings
than those specified herein.	7.	Special Requirements for Corner Lots in the C
and M Zones. (Added by Ord. No. 143,825, Eff. 10/19/72.)	(a)	in addition to any
other requirements contained in this article, no building or structure shall be
erected within a visibility triangle, or portion thereof, on any lot in the C or
M Zones, except a corner lot subject to the provisions of Section 12.37, or
which complies with the provisions of Section 17.05-D,4 of this Code. Such
visibility triangle shall contain no structure or other obstruction to
visibility from two and one-half to ten feet above the adjacent curb levels. For
purposes of this subdivision a visibility triangle is defined as the area
bounded by:	(1)	The front lot line from its intersection with the side street
lot line to a point ten feet from said intersection;	(2)	The side street lot
line from its intersection with the front lot line to a point ten feet from said
intersection; and	(3)	A diagonal line joining said two points.	Nothing in this
subdivision shall prohibit the location of one column or pillar supporting an
upper story and having no horizontal dimension of more than 24 inches within the
visibility triangle.	(b)	The City Engineer may approve and allow such variations
from the aforesaid requirements as he determines are made necessary by the
conditions of the terrain.	(c)	Any person required to provide a visibility
triangle in accordance with the provisions of this subdivision may appeal any
determination made by the City Engineer to the Board of Public Works. Such an
appeal shall be made in writing and shall state in clear and concise language
the grounds therefor. The Board of Public Works may grant such waivers or
modifications of the requirements of this subdivision as it shall determine are
required to prevent any unreasonable hardship under the facts of each case so
long as such modifications or waivers are in conformity with the general spirit
and intent of the requirements of this subdivision.	(d)	The requirements of this
subdivision shall be in addition to those requirements set forth in Section
62.200 of this Code.	8.	Retaining Walls in Hillside Areas.  (Added by Ord. No.
176,445, Eff. 3/9/05.)  This subdivision applies to retaining walls that meet
all of the following criteria:  located in the A or R Zones (including the RA
Zone), located on land designated as a Hillside Area on the Bureau of
Engineering Basic Grid Map No. A-13372, and located on a lot developed or to be
developed with dwelling units.  For purposes of this subdivision, a
“retaining wall” shall be defined as a freestanding continuous structure, as
viewed from the top, intended to support earth, which is not attached to a
building.  Retaining walls are subject to the following restrictions:	(a)	A
maximum of one free standing vertical or approximately vertical retaining wall
may be built on any lot with a maximum height of 12 feet as measured from the
top of the wall to the lower side of the adjacent ground elevation.  However,
as shown in the diagram below, a maximum of two vertical or approximately
vertical walls or portions of a wall can be built if they comply with the
following:	(i)	The minimum horizontal distance between the two walls is three
feet,	(ii)	Neither of the two walls exceed a height of 10 feet measured from the
top of each wall to the lower side of the adjacent ground elevation at each
wall, and	(iii)	In no case shall the height of a wall located in a required yard
exceed the height allowed by Section 12.22 C.20.(f) of this
Code.	(b)	Landscaping.  For retaining walls of eight feet or greater in height,
the applicant must submit a landscape plan designed to completely hide the
retaining wall from view within a reasonable amount of time.  The landscape
plan shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Planning in accordance
with Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code and any Landscape Guidelines
established by the City Planning Commission.	(c)	Zoning Administrator approval
for taller walls or additional walls.  Retaining walls that exceed the heights
or the maximum number allowed in paragraph (a) of this subdivision shall be
subject to the approval of a Zoning Administrator under Section 12.24 X.26. of
this Code.	(d)	Exception for public agency projects.  This subdivision does not
apply to projects undertaken by a public agency.	(e)	Exception for prior
approved retaining walls.  This subdivision does not apply to a retaining wall
that received a final discretionary approval, as determined by the Director of
Planning, from the City under another provision of the Code prior to the
effective date of the ordinance adding this new Subdivision 8. to Subsection C.
of Section 12.21 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	(f)	Exception for retaining
walls required by Building and Safety.  The provisions of this subdivision do
not apply to any retaining wall built to comply with an order issued by the
Department of Building and Safety to repair an unsafe or substandard
condition.	9.	Work Space for Joint Living and Work Quarters.  (Added by Ord.
No. 181,133, Eff. 5/11/10.)  The total floor area in a joint living and work
quarters shall be arranged to comply with one of the following standards:
 	(a)	Tier 1 Standard – Low Percentage of Work Space.  At least ten percent
but no more than 25 percent of the total floor area in a joint living and work
quarters shall be work space; or	(b)	Tier 2 Standard – Medium Percent-age of
Work Space.  At least 25 percent but no more than 50 percent of the total floor
area in a joint living and work quarters shall be work space.	10.	Single-Family
Zone Hillside Area Development Standards.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the contrary,
for any Lot zoned R1, RS, RE, or RA and designated Hillside Area on the
Department of City Planning Hillside Area Map, no Building or Structure nor the
enlargement of any Building or Structure shall be erected or maintained unless
the following development standards are provided and maintained in connection
with the Building, Structure, or enlargement:	(a)	Setback Requirements.  No
Building or Structure shall be erected, maintained or enlarged unless the
setbacks as outlined in Table 12.21 C.10-1 are provided and maintained in
connection with the Building, Structure, or  enlargement.
  
    
      
        Table 12.21 C.10-1
Single-Family Zone Hillside Area Setback Requirements
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        R1
      
      
        RS
      
      
        RE9
      
      
        RE11
      
      
        RE15
      
      
        RE20
      
      
        RE40
      
      
        RA
      
    
    
      
        Front Yard
      
    
    
      
        	Not less than:
      
      
        20% of Lot Depth
      
    
    
      
        	Need not exceed:
      
      
        20 ft
      
      
        25 ft
      
    
    
      
        Side Yard
      
    
    
      
        	Not less than:
      
      
        5 ft
      
      
        7 ft
      
      
        10% of Lot Width, but not less than 5 ft
      
      
        10 ft
      
    
    
      
        	Need not exceed:
      
      
        n/a
      
      
        10 ft
      
      
        n/a
      
    
    
      
        	The required Side Yard may be reduced to 10% of the Lot Width, but in
no event to less than 3 ft, where the Lot is less than the following widths:
      
      
        50 ft
      
      
        70 ft
      
      
        n/a
      
      
        70 ft*
      
    
    
      
        	For Buildings or Structures with a height greater than 18 feet:
      
      
        One additional foot shall be added to each required Side Yard for each
increment of 10 feet or fraction thereof above the first 18 feet.
      
    
    
      
        Rear Yard
      
    
    
      
        	Not less than:
      
      
        15 ft
      
      
        20 ft
      
      
        25% of Lot Depth
      
    
    
      
        	Need not exceed:
      
      
        n/a
      
      
        25 ft
      
    
    
      
        
        ft – feet
        n/a – the provision is not applicable 
        Lot Depth – as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code
        Lot Width – as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code
        
        Notes:
        * Only applicable for Lots which are of record prior to July 1, 1966.
      
    
  
Notwithstanding the required yards, or setbacks, outlined in Table 12.21 C.10-1
above, or those exceptions found in Section 12.22 of this Code, the following
provisions shall apply:	(1)	Prevailing Front Yard Setbacks.	(i)	Where there are
two or more developed Lots which have Front Yards that vary in depth by not more
than 10 feet, and such Lots comprise 40% or more of the Frontage, then the
minimum Front Yard depth shall be the average depth of the Front Yards of such
Lots.	(ii)	Where there are two or more possible combinations of developed Lots
comprising 40% or more of the Frontage, and these Lots have Front Yards that
vary in depth by not more than 10 feet, then the minimum Front Yard depth shall
be the average depth of the Front Yards of that combination which has the
shallowest average depth.	(iii)	In determining the required Front Yard, the
following shall not be taken into account:  Buildings located on key Lots,
entirely on the rear half of Lots, or on Lots in the “C” or “M”
Zones.	(iv)	Nothing contained in this subparagraph (1) shall, however, be deemed
to require Front Yards which exceed 40 feet in depth.	(2)	Front Yard Setback on
Lots Fronting on Substandard Hillside Limited Street.  For any Lot that fronts
on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street, there shall be a minimum Front Yard
setback of at least five feet.  However, the prevailing Front Yard setback
regulations, as outlined in Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (a), shall apply,
so long as a Front Yard setback of no less than five feet is provided.	(3)	Front
Yard Setbacks on Key Lots.  On Key Lots, the minimum Front Yard may be the
average of the required Front Yard for the adjoining Interior Lot and the
required Side Yard along the Street side of a Reversed Corner Lot.  But such
minimum Front Yard may apply for a distance of not more than 85 feet from the
rear Lot line of the Reversed Corner Lot, beyond which point the Front Yard
specified in Table 12.21 C.10-1 or Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (a) shall
apply.  Where existing Buildings on either or both of said adjoining Lots are
located nearer to the front or side Lot lines than the Yard required by this
Paragraph (a), the Yards established by such existing buildings may be used in
computing the required Front Yard for a Key Lot.	(4)	Front Yard Setbacks on
Through Lots.  At each end of a Through Lot, there shall be a Front Yard
setback as required by this Paragraph (a) for the zone in which each Street
Frontage is located.  But only one Front Yard need be provided on those Through
Lots which abut on a primary, Major or Secondary Highway, as such highways are
shown on the “Highways and Freeways Element of the General Plan”, when the
rights to vehicular ingress and egress from such Through Lots to the highways
have been abandoned or prohibited by a tract restriction.  Where only one Front
Yard is required on a Through Lot, as provided herein, the Rear Yard shall be
located on the portion of such Lot adjacent to the highway.	Where a Through Lot
is less than 150 feet in depth or is developed as a single Building site, and
the two required Front Yards are provided, no Rear Yard is required.	(5)	Front
Yard Paving.  All portions of the required Front Yard not used for necessary
driveways and walkways, including decorative walkways, shall be used for
planting, and shall not otherwise be paved.	(6)	Front Yard on Lots Existing
Prior to June 1, 1946.  This provision shall apply to any Lot of less than one
acre which was of record or held in separate ownership on June 1, 1946, or was
subsequently created either by the recording of a division of land map or
otherwise in accordance with the applicable zoning regulations.  On any such
Lot, the originally required Front Yard shall be provided and maintained in
addition to any new Front Yard required by any subsequent rearrangement of the
Lot lines by sale or division (without recording a subdivision map) creating a
new Lot fronting on a different Street than that on which the original Lot
fronted.	(7)	Side and Rear Yards for Basements.  In determining the required
Side and Rear Yards of a Building, any Basement containing Habitable Rooms shall
be considered a Story.	(8)	Yards in the Coastal Zone.  The following setback
requirements shall apply to Lots located in a Coastal Zone:	(i)	On a Lot in the
RE9 or RE11 Zone, there shall be a Side Yard on each side of a main Building of
not less than 5 feet.  Where the Lot is less than 50 feet in width, the Side
Yard may be reduced to 10% of the width of the Lot, but in no event less than 3
feet.	(ii)	In lieu of the additional Side Yard requirement in Table 12.21
C.10-1, for a Building more than two-stories in height on Lots in the R1, RS, or
RE Zone, one foot shall be added to the width of each required Side Yard for
each additional Story above the second Story.	(iii)	On a Lot in the RA Zone,
where a Side Yard is less than 10 feet in width, and the Building erected on the
Lot is three or more Stories in height, one foot shall be added to such Side
Yard.	(9)	Side Yards in Specific Plans, Historic Preservation Overlay Zones or
in Subdivision Approvals.  Side Yard requirements in Specific Plans, Historic
Preservation Overlay Zones or in subdivision approvals shall take precedence
over requirements of this Subdivision 10.  Otherwise, this Subdivision shall
apply.	(10)	Encroachments Into Required Yards.  Every required Front, Side and
Rear Yard shall be open and unobstructed from the ground to the sky except for
the following:	(i)	Garages in Front Yards.  A Private Garage may be located on
the required Front Yard of a Lot where the Elevation of the ground at a point 50
feet from the front Lot line of a Lot and midway between the side Lot lines
differs 10 feet or more from the curb level, provided every portion of the
garage Building is at least 5 feet from the front Lot line.  Where the wall of
such garage is two-thirds below natural or finished Grade of the Lot, whichever
is lower, said wall may extend to the adjacent side Lot line; in all other
cases, said garage shall not be nearer to the side Lot line than the width of
the Side Yard required for a main Building of the same height.	(ii)	Open,
Unenclosed Stairways, Porches, Platforms, Landing Places, or Balconies. 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, on Lots fronting onto a
Substandard Hillside Limited Street, open unenclosed stairways, porches,
platforms and landing places not covered by a roof or canopy shall not project
or extend into the Front Yard.  Balconies with 10 feet or more of vertical
clearance beneath them may project or extend no more than 30 inches into a Front
Yard.	(iii)	Other Exceptions.  All of those exceptions found in Subdivision 5.
of Subsection C. of Section 12.21 and in Section 12.22 of this Code.	(11)	Pools,
Ponds, or Body of Water in Required Yards.  No swimming pool, fish pond or
other body of water which is designed or used to contain water 18 inches or more
in depth shall be permitted in any required Yard Space in which fences over 42
inches in height are prohibited, even though the pool, pond or body of water
extends below the adjacent natural ground level.	(12)	Zoning Administrator’s
Authority.  For Lots fronting on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street, a
Zoning Administrator may grant a reduction of the front Setback requirements of
Subparagraph (2) of this Paragraph and Side Yard requirements in Table 12.21
C.10-1, pursuant to the authority and procedures established in Subdivision 28.
of Subsection X. of Section 12.24 of this Code; however, in no event shall the
Side Yard be less than 4 feet.	(b)	Maximum Residential Floor Area.  The maximum
Residential Floor Area contained in all Buildings and Accessory Buildings shall
not exceed the sum of the square footage of each Slope Band multiplied by the
corresponding Floor Area Ratio (FAR) for the zone of the Lot, as outlined in
Table 12.21 C.10-2a.  This formula can be found in Table 12.21 C.10-2b, where
“A” is the area of the Lot within each Slope Band, “FAR” is the FAR of
the corresponding Slope Band, and “RFA” is the sum of the Residential Floor
Area of each Slope Band.
  
    
      
        Table 12.21 C.10-2a
Single-Family Zone Hillside Area Residential Floor Area Ratios (FAR)
      
    
    
      
        Slope Bands (%)
      
      
        R1
      
      
        RS
      
      
        RE9
      
      
        RE11
      
      
        RE15
      
      
        RE20
      
      
        RE40
      
      
        RA
      
    
    
      
        0 – 14.99
      
      
        0.5
      
      
        0.45
      
      
        0.40
      
      
        0.40
      
      
        0.35
      
      
        0.35
      
      
        0.35
      
      
        0.25
      
    
    
      
        15 – 29.99
      
      
        0.45
      
      
        0.40
      
      
        0.35
      
      
        0.35
      
      
        0.30
      
      
        0.30
      
      
        0.30
      
      
        0.20
      
    
    
      
        30 – 44.99
      
      
        0.40
      
      
        0.35
      
      
        0.30
      
      
        0.30
      
      
        0.25
      
      
        0.25
      
      
        0.25
      
      
        0.15
      
    
    
      
        45 – 59.99
      
      
        0.35
      
      
        0.30
      
      
        0.25
      
      
        0.25
      
      
        0.20
      
      
        0.20
      
      
        0.20
      
      
        0.10
      
    
    
      
        60 – 99.99
      
      
        0.30
      
      
        0.25
      
      
        0.20
      
      
        0.20
      
      
        0.15
      
      
        0.15
      
      
        0.15
      
      
        0.05
      
    
    
      
        100 +
      
      
        0.00
      
      
        0.00
      
      
        0.00
      
      
        0.00
      
      
        0.00
      
      
        0.00
      
      
        0.00
      
      
        0.00
      
    
    
    
      
        Table 12.21 C.10-2b
Hillside Area Maximum Residential Floor Area Formula
      
    
    
      
        Slope Bands (%)
      
      
        Area (sq ft)
      
      
        
      
      
        FAR
      
      
        
      
      
        Residential Floor Area
      
    
    
      
        0 – 14.99
      
      
        A 1
      
      
        X
      
      
        FAR 1
      
      
        =
      
      
        RFA 1
      
    
    
      
        15 – 29.99
      
      
        A 2
      
      
        X
      
      
        FAR 2
      
      
        =
      
      
        RFA 2
      
    
    
      
        30 – 44.99
      
      
        A 3
      
      
        X
      
      
        FAR 3
      
      
        =
      
      
        RFA 3
      
    
    
      
        45 – 59.99
      
      
        A 4
      
      
        X
      
      
        FAR 4
      
      
        =
      
      
        RFA 4
      
    
    
      
        60 – 99.99
      
      
        A 5
      
      
        X
      
      
        FAR 5
      
      
        =
      
      
        RFA 5
      
    
    
      
        100 +
      
      
        A 6
      
      
        X
      
      
        FAR 6
      
      
        =
      
      
        RFA 6
      
    
    
      
        Maximum Residential Floor Area
      
      
        =
      
      
        Sum of RFA 1 through RFA 6
      
    
  
	(1)	Slope Analysis Map.  As part of an application for a permit to the
Department of Building and Safety, or for a Discretionary Approval as defined in
Section 16.05 B. of this Code to the Department of City Planning, the applicant
shall submit a Slope Analysis Map based on a survey of the natural/existing
topography, prepared, stamped, and signed by a registered civil engineer or
licensed land surveyor, to verify the total area (in square feet) of the
portions of a property within each Slope Band identified in Table 12.21
C.10-2a.  The Director of Planning, or his/her designee, shall verify that the
Slope Analysis Map has been prepared by a registered civil engineer or licensed
land surveyor.  In addition, the Director of Planning, or his/her designee
shall approve the calculated Maximum Residential Floor Area for the Lot by the
registered civil engineer or licensed land surveyor using the Slope Analysis Map
prior to applying for a permit from the Department of Building and Safety.	The
map shall have a scale of not less than 1 inch to 100 feet and a contour
interval of not more than 10 feet with two-foot intermediates.  The map shall
also indicate the datum, source, and scale of topographic data used in the Slope
analysis, and shall attest to the fact that the Slope analysis has been
accurately calculated.	The Slope Analysis Map shall clearly delineate/identify
the Slope Bands (i.e. with contrasting colors or hatching), and shall include a
tabulation of the total area in square-feet within each Slope Band, as well as
the FAR and Residential Floor Area value of each corresponding Slope Band as
shown on Table 12.21 C.10-2b.	The Slope Analysis Map shall be prepared using
CAD-based, GIS-based, or other type of software specifically designed for such
purpose.	(2)	Guaranteed Minimum Residential Floor Area.  Notwithstanding the
above, the maximum Residential Floor Area for all Buildings and Accessory
Buildings on any Lot may be least the percentage of the Lot size as outlined in
Table 12.21 C.10-3 below or 1,000 square feet, whichever is greater.
  
    
      
        Table 12.21 C.10-3
Guaranteed Minimum Residential Floor Area
      
    
    
      
        Zone
      
      
        Percentage of Lot Size
      
    
    
      
        R1
      
      
        25%
      
    
    
      
        RS
      
      
        23%
      
    
    
      
        RE9
      
      
        20%
      
    
    
      
        RE11
      
      
        20%
      
    
    
      
        RE15
      
      
        18%
      
    
    
      
        RE20
      
      
        18%
      
    
    
      
        RE40
      
      
        18%
      
    
    
      
        RA
      
      
        13%
      
    
  
	The guaranteed minimum for the original zone as stated in the paragraph above
shall apply to Lots that meet the following criteria:  have an area that is
less than 50% of the minimum Lot size for its Zone, were made nonconforming in
Lot size as a result of an adopted zone change or code amendment changing the
minimum Lot size, and met the minimum Lot size requirements of the original
zone.	(3)	Residential Floor Area Bonus.  An additional 20% of the maximum
Residential Floor Area as determined by Table 12.21 C.10-2 of this Paragraph
(b), or an additional 30% for Lots where the guaranteed minimum outlined in
Subparagraph (2) of this Paragraph (b) is utilized, for that Lot shall be
allowed if any of the options listed below is utilized.  Only one bonus per
property is allowed.	(i)	Proportional Stories Option.  The total Residential
Floor Area of each Story other than the Base Floor in a multi-Story Building
does not exceed 75% of the Base Floor Area. This option shall only apply to flat
Building pads where the Slope of the Building pad area prior to any Grading, as
measured from the highest and lowest Elevation points of the existing Grade
within 5 horizontal feet of the exterior walls of the proposed Building or
Structure, is less than 15%; or	(ii)	Front Facade Stepback Option.  The
cumulative length of the exterior walls which are not a part of a garage facing
the Front Lot Line, equal to a minimum of 25% of the Building width, shall be
stepped-back a distance of at least 20% of the Building depth from a plane
parallel to the Lot width established at the point of the Building closest to
the Front Lot line.  When the Front Lot line is not straight, a line connecting
the points where the Side Lot lines and the Front Lot line intersect shall be
used to establish the plane parallel to the front Lot width.  When Through Lots
have, or are required to provide, two Front Yard setbacks, the step-back shall
be provided along both Front Lot Lines.  When referred by the Department of
Building and Safety, for unusual Building and/or Lot configuration, the Director
of Planning or his/her designee shall determine that the proposed project
complies with this provision and qualifies for a Residential Floor Area
bonus.	For the purposes of this provision, all exterior walls that intersect a
plane parallel to the Front Lot Line at 45 degrees or less shall be considered
to be facing the Front Lot Line.  The Building width shall be the greatest
distance between the exterior walls of the Building measured parallel to the Lot
width.  The Building depth shall be the greatest distance between the exterior
walls of the Building measured parallel to the Lot depth.	This option shall only
apply to Structures which are no more than 35 feet from the Frontage along an
improved Street and on a “flat” Building pad where the Slope of the Building
pad prior to any Grading, as measured from the highest point of the existing
Grade within 5 horizontal feet of the exterior wall of the proposed Building or
Structure to the lowest point of the existing natural Grade within 5 horizontal
feet, is less than 15%; or	(iii)	Cumulative Side Yard Setbacks Option.  The
combined width of Side Yards shall be at least 25% of the total Lot Width, as
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, but in no event shall a single Side Yard
setback be less than 10% of the Lot Width or the minimum required by Paragraph
(a) of this Subdivision, whichever is greater.  One foot shall be added to each
required Side Yard for each increment of 10 feet or fraction thereof of height
above the first 18 feet of height.  The width of a required Side Yard setback
shall be maintained for the entire length of a Side Yard and cannot alternate
from one Side Yard to the other; or	(iv)	18-Foot Envelope Height Option.  For
properties which are not in the “1SS” Single-Story Height District, the
maximum envelope height, measured pursuant to Subparagraph (1) of Paragraph (d)
of this Subdivision 10., shall be no more than 18 feet; or 	(v)	Multiple
Structures Option.  In addition to the Lot coverage requirements in Paragraph
(e) of this Subdivision, any one Building and Structure extending more than 6
feet above Hillside Area Grade, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, shall
cover no more than 20% of the area of a Lot.  Such Buildings or Structures may
only be connected by one breezeway, fully enclosed walkway, elevator, or
combination thereof of not more than 5 feet in width; or	(vi)	Minimal Grading
Option.  For properties where at least 60% of the Lot is comprised of Slopes
which are 30% or greater, as determined by a Slope Analysis Map prepared in
accordance with Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (b), the total amount of any
Grading on the site (including exempted Grading, as outlined in Paragraph (f) of
this Subdivision (10)) does not exceed the numeric value of 10% of the total Lot
size in cubic yards or 1,000 cubic yards, whichever is less (example:  a
project involving 500 cubic-yards of Grading on a 5,000 square-foot Lot will be
eligible for this bonus option); or	(vii)	Green Building Option.  For a new
One-Family Dwelling only, the new construction must satisfy the Tier 1
requirements or higher of the LA Green Building Code, as defined in Section
99.01.101.1 of this Code.	(4)	Zoning Administrator’s Authority.	(i)	10%
Adjustments.  The Zoning Administrator has the authority to grant adjustments
from the requirements of this Paragraph (b) of not more than 10%, pursuant to
the authority and procedures established in Subsection A. of Section 12.28 of
this Code.	(ii)	Additions to Structures Existing Prior to August 1, 2010.  The
Zoning Administrator has the authority to approve any additions made after
August 1, 2010,  to a One-Family Dwelling existing prior to that date for which
permits have been previously obtained which exceed the requirements of this
Paragraph (b), pursuant to the authority and procedures established in
Subdivision 28. of Subsection X. of Section 12.24 of this Code, provided:	a.	the
total cumulative Residential Floor Area of all such additions does not exceed
1,000 square feet; and 	b.	the resulting Building does not exceed the height of
the original Building or the height permitted in Paragraph (d) of this
Subdivision 10. below, whichever is greater; and 	c.	at least two off-street
covered parking spaces are provided.	(c)	Verification of Existing Residential
Floor Area.  For additions with cumulative Residential Floor Area of less than
1,000 square feet constructed after August 1, 2010, or remodels of Buildings
built prior to August 1, 2010, the existing Residential Floor Area shall be the
same as the Building square footage shown on the most recent Los Angeles County
Tax Assessor’s records at the time the plans are submitted to the Department
of Building and Safety and a plan check fee is paid.  Except that Residential
Floor Area may be calculated as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code when a
complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area calculations of all the
Structures on the Lot, prepared by a licensed architect or engineer, is
submitted by the applicant.	Any work that does not qualify as a remodel, as
defined in the paragraph below, or additions that are 1,000 square feet or
larger shall require a complete set of fully dimensioned plans with area
calculations of all the Structures on the Lot prepared by a licensed architect
or engineer.	For the purposes of implementing this Paragraph (c), a remodel
shall mean the alteration of an existing Building or Structure provided that at
least 50 percent of the perimeter length of the contiguous exterior walls and 50
percent of the roof are retained.	(d)	Height Limits.  No portion of a Building
or Structure shall be erected or enlarged which exceeds the envelope height
limits as outlined in Table 12.21 C.10-4, or as otherwise stated in the
paragraphs below.  For the provisions below, whenever Grade is mentioned, it
shall mean Hillside Area Grade as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code.
  
    
      
        Table 12.21 C.10-4
Maximum Height of Structures (in feet)
      
    
    
      
        Height Districts
      
      
        R1
      
      
        RS
      
      
        RE9
      
      
        RE11
      
      
        RE15
      
      
        RE20
      
      
        RE40
      
      
        RA
      
    
    
      
        When the roof of the uppermost Story of a Building or Structure or
portion thereof has a Slope of 25% or greater, the maximum height for said
portion of Building or Structure thereof shall be as follows:
      
    
    
      
        1, 1L, &#038; 1VL
      
      
        33
      
      
        33
      
      
        33
      
      
        36
      
      
        36
      
      
        36
      
      
        36
      
      
        36
      
    
    
      
        1XL
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
    
    
      
        1SS
      
      
        22
      
      
        22
      
      
        22
      
      
        22
      
      
        22
      
      
        22
      
      
        22
      
      
        22
      
    
    
      
        When the roof of the uppermost Story of a Building or Structure or
portion thereof has a Slope of less than 25%, the maximum height for said
portion of Building or Structure thereof shall be as follows:
      
    
    
      
        1, 1L, &#038; 1VL
      
      
        28
      
      
        28
      
      
        28
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
    
    
      
        1XL
      
      
        28
      
      
        28
      
      
        28
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
      
        30
      
    
    
      
        1SS
      
      
        18
      
      
        18
      
      
        18
      
      
        18
      
      
        18
      
      
        18
      
      
        18
      
      
        18
      
    
  
	(1)	Measurement of Height.  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Code,
the height limits in Table 12.21 C.10-4 shall be measured as set forth
below.	(i)	Maximum Envelope Height.  Envelope height (otherwise known as
vertical height or “plumb line” height) shall be the vertical distance from
the Grade of the site to a projected plane at the roof Structure or parapet wall
located directly above and parallel to the Grade.  Measurement of the envelope
height shall originate at the lowest Grade within 5 horizontal feet of the
exterior walls of a Building or Structure.  At no point shall any given section
of any part of the proposed Building or Structure exceed the maximum envelope
height.	A topographic map shall be submitted as a separate plan sheet or as part
of the site plan identifying the 5-foot perimeter of the exterior walls, or any
other information which the Department of Building and Safety deems necessary to
determine compliance with this Paragraph (i).	(2)	Zoning Administrator’s
Authority.  A Zoning Administrator may allow Structures which exceed the
maximum envelope height requirements of Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (d);
however, the increase in height may not result in a Building or Structure which
exceeds an overall height of 45 feet, pursuant to the authority and procedures
established in Subdivision 28. of Subsection X. of Section 12.24 of this Code. 
The overall height shall be measured from the lowest Elevation point within 5
horizontal feet of the exterior walls of a Building or Structure to the highest
Elevation point of the roof Structure or parapet wall.	(3)	Prevailing Height. 
Notwithstanding Table 12.21 C.10-4 of this Paragraph (d), when 40% or more of
the existing One-Family Dwellings with Frontage on both sides of the block have
Building heights exceeding these limits, the maximum envelope height for any
Building on that block may be the average height of the Dwellings exceeding
these limits.	(4)	Lots in a Single-Story Height District.  As enabled by
Section 12.21.1 A.1. of this Code, on Lots in a “SS” Single Story Height
District, shown as “1SS” on a Zoning Map, no Building or Structure shall be
erected or enlarged which exceeds one Story.	Notwithstanding the provision in
Section 12.21.1 A.8., in determining the number of Stories, any Basement which
is exempt from the Residential Floor Area calculation, as outlined in Section
12.03 of this Code, shall not be considered a Story.	(5)	Lots Fronting on
Substandard Hillside Limited Streets.  For any Lot fronting onto a Substandard
Hillside Limited Street, as defined in Section 12.03, and subject to the 5-foot
Front Yard setback, no portion of a Building or Structure within 20 feet of the
Front Lot Line shall exceed 24 feet in height.  The 24 foot maximum Building
and Structure height shall be measured from the Elevation at the centerline or
midpoint of the Street on which the Lot fronts.	(6)	Unenclosed/Uncovered Rooftop
Decks and Cantilevered Balconies.  Unenclosed/uncovered rooftop decks,
cantilevered balconies and “visually permeable railing” (no more than 42
inches in height), may project beyond the maximum envelope height, as limited
and measured in Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (d), no more than 5
horizontal feet.	For the purposes of this Subparagraph (6), “visually
permeable railing” means railing constructed of material that is transparent,
such as glass or plastic panels, or wrought iron or other solid material which
is 80% open to light and air.	(7)	Roof Structures.  Roof Structures as
described in Table 12.21 C.10-5 below, or similar Structures, may be erected
above the height limit specified in Table 12.21 C.10-4.
  
    
      
        Table 12.21 C.10-5
Projecting Roof Structures
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,110, Eff. 5/29/12.)
      
    
    
      
        Roof Structures
      
      
        Projection Above Height Limit
      
      
        Setback from Roof Perimeter
      
    
    
      
        Elevator Housing
      
      
        No more than 5 feet
      
      
        Not less than 5 feet
      
    
    
      
        Tanks
      
    
    
      
        Ventilating Fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain
the Building.
      
    
    
      
        Skylights, covering up to 33 1/3% of the roof area upon which the
skylight is constructed.
      
    
    
      
        Towers
      
    
    
      
        Steeples
      
    
    
      
        Flagpoles
      
    
    
      
        Smokestacks
      
    
    
      
        Wireless Masts
      
    
    
      
        Water Tanks
      
    
    
      
        Silos
      
    
    
      
        Structures Solely Supporting Solar Energy Systems
      
      
        See Section 12.21.1 B.3.(c)
      
      
        See Section 12.21.1 B.3.(c)
      
    
    
      
        Chimneys
      
      
        No more than 5 feet
      
      
        None
      
    
    
      
        Exhaust Ducts/Ventilation Shafts
      
    
    
      
        Stairway Housing, no larger than 36 square feet.
      
    
    
      
        Skylights, covering more than 33 1/3% of the roof area upon which the
skylight is constructed.
      
      
        No more than 30 inches
      
    
    
      
        *Solar energy systems as defined by California Civil Code Section 801.5
are exempt per California Government Code Section 65850.5
      
    
  
	No roof Structure or any other space above the height limit specified in Table
12.21 C.10-4 shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor
space.	(8)	Specific Plans, Historic Preservation Overlay Zones or Subdivision
Approvals.  Height limitations in Specific Plans, Historic Preservation Overlay
Zones or in subdivision approvals shall take precedence over the requirements of
this Section 12.21.  Otherwise, this Section 12.21 shall apply.	(e)	Lot
Coverage.  Buildings and Structures extending more than 6 feet above natural
ground level shall cover no more than 40% of the area of a Lot.	(1)	Lot Coverage
on Substandard Lots.  Notwithstanding Paragraph (e) above, for a Lot which is
substandard as to width (less than 50 feet) and as to area (less than 5,000
square feet), Buildings and Structures shall cover no more than 45% of the area
of a Lot.	(2)	Zoning Administrator’s Authority.  A Zoning Administrator may
grant limited deviations from these requirements, pursuant to the authority and
procedures established in Subdivision 28. of Subsection X. of Section 12.24 of
this Code.	(f)	Grading.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code,
total Grading (Cut and Fill) on a Lot shall be limited as outlined below.  No
Grading permits shall be issued until a Building permit is approved.	(1)	Maximum
Grading Quantities.  The cumulative quantity of Grading, or the total combined
value of both Cut and Fill or incremental Cut and Fill, for any one property
shall be limited to a base maximum of 500 cubic yards plus the numeric value
equal to 5% of the total Lot size in cubic yards.  Example: a 5,000 square-foot
Lot would have a maximum Grading amount of 750 cubic yards (500 cubic yards for
the base amount + 250 cubic yards for the 5% calculation).  	However, the
cumulative quantity of Grading shall not exceed the maximum “by-right”
Grading quantities outlined by Zone in Table 12.21 C.10-6 below.
  
    
      
        Table 12.21 C.10-6
Maximum “By-Right” Grading Quantities
      
    
    
      
        
Zone
      
      
        Maximum Grading
(cubic yards)
      
    
    
      
        R1
      
      
        1,000
      
    
    
      
        RS
      
      
        1,100
      
    
    
      
        RE9
      
      
        1,200
      
    
    
      
        RE11
      
      
        1,400
      
    
    
      
        RE15
      
      
        1,600
      
    
    
      
        RE20
      
      
        2,000
      
    
    
      
        RE40
      
      
        3,300
      
    
    
      
        RA
      
      
        1,800
      
    
  
	(2)	Import/Export Limits.  The maximum quantity of earth import or export
shall be limited to the following quantities: 	(i)	Lots Fronting on Standard
Hillside Limited Streets or Larger.  For a property which fronts onto a
Standard Hillside Limited Street or larger, as defined in Section 12.03 of this
Code, the maximum quantity of earth import shall be no more than 500 cubic
yards, where additional Grading on-site in conjunction with the amount of import
does not exceed the requirements established in Subparagraph (1) of this
Paragraph (f). The maximum quantity of earth export shall be no more than 1,000
cubic yards.	(ii)	Lots Fronting on Substandard Hillside Limited Streets.   For
a property which fronts onto a Substandard Hillside Limited Street, as defined
in Section 12.03 of this Code, the maximum quantity of earth import shall be no
more than 375 cubic yards, where additional Grading on-site in conjunction with
the amount of import does not exceed the requirements established in
Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (f).  The maximum quantity of earth export
shall be no more than 750 cubic yards.	(iii)	Exempted On-Site Grading
Activity.  Earth quantities which originate from, or will be utilized for any
exempted Grading activity listed in Subparagraph (3) of this Paragraph (f) shall
be exempted from the maximum import and export quantities set forth in this
Paragraph (f).  A plan indicating the destination and/or source (i.e. exempted
Grading activity or non-exempted Grading activity) of any import and/or export
shall be submitted as part of a Grading permit application.	(3)	Exceptions. 
The Grading activities outlined in the sub-subparagraphs below shall be exempt
from the Grading and/or earth transport limitations established in Subparagraphs
(1) and (2) of this Paragraph (f).  However, any excavation from an exempted
activity being used as Fill, outside of a 5-foot perimeter from the exempted
Grading activities, for any other on-site purpose shall be counted towards the
limits established in Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (f).	(i)	Cut and/or
Fill underneath the footprint of a Structure(s) (such as foundations,
understructures including Basements or other completely subterranean spaces), as
well as for water storage tanks, required stormwater retention improvements, and
required animal keeping site development that do not involve the construction of
any freestanding retaining walls.	(ii)	Cut and/or Fill, up to 500 cubic yards,
for driveways to the required parking or fire department turnaround closest to
the accessible Street for which a Lot has ingress/egress rights.	(iii)	Remedial
Grading as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code as recommended in a
Geotechnical Investigation Report, prepared in accordance with Sections
91.7006.2, 91.7006.3, and 91.7006.4 of this Code, and approved by the Department
of Building and Safety – Grading Division.	(4)	Zoning Administrator’s
Authority.  A Zoning Administrator may grant the following deviations from the
requirements of Subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this Paragraph (f), pursuant to the
authority and procedures established in Subdivision 28. of Subsection X. of
Section 12.24 of this Code.	(i)	Grading in excess of the maximum “by-right”
Grading quantities listed in Subparagraph (1) of this Paragraph (f), but in no
event shall the quantities exceed the true value of 500 cubic yards plus the
numeric value equal to 5% of the total Lot size in cubic yards.	(ii)	For a
property which fronts onto a Standard Hillside Limited Street or larger, as
defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, increase the maximum quantity of earth
import greater than 500 cubic yards, and increase the maximum quantity of export
greater than 1,000 cubic yards; calculated pursuant to Subparagraph (2) of this
Paragraph (f).	For a property which fronts onto a Substandard Hillside Limited
Street, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, increase the maximum quantity
of earth import greater than 375 cubic yards, and increase the maximum quantity
of earth export greater than 750 cubic yards; calculated pursuant to
Subparagraph (2) of this Paragraph (f).	(5)	New Graded Slopes.  All new Graded
Slopes shall be no steeper than 2:1 (horizontal:vertical), except when the
Department of Building and Safety – Grading Division has determined that
Slopes may exceed 2:1 pursuant to Section 91.105 of this Code.	(6)	Grading
Activity on 100% Slopes.  Notwithstanding the Grading, Excavations and Fills
provisions in Chapter IX of this Code (the Los Angeles Building Code), when any
Grading activity is proposed on any slope of 100% or greater, as identified on
the Slope Analysis Map, the Department of Building and Safety – Grading
Division shall require the Geotechnical Investigation Report (also referred to
as a soils and/or geological report) to include the most stringent level of
geotechnical analysis and reporting feasible, and in sufficient detail to
substantiate and support the design and construction methods being proposed.	A
Deputy Grading Inspector, also referred to as a Registered (Licensed) Deputy
Inspector, paid for by the owner, will be required to be on site when said
Grading activity is being conducted in order to ensure that all work is being
done in accordance with the recommendations of the Geotechnical Report, the
approved plans, and/or the applicable Grading requirements of the Los Angeles
Building Code for applicable Grading or foundation earthwork in Hillside
Areas.	(7)	Grading Plan Check Criteria.  Grading plans and reports shall be
submitted for approval with Building plans, and shall include those items
required by Section 91.7006 of this Code.	(g)	Off-Street Parking Requirements. 
Notwithstanding those exceptions found in Section 12.22 of this Code, no
Building or Grading permit shall be issued for the construction of any
One-Family Dwelling, Accessory Building, or addition thereto, unless the
following requirements are met.	(1)	Number of Required Covered Spaces.  There
shall be at least two Automobile Parking Spaces on the same Lot with each
One-Family Dwelling thereon.  These required parking spaces shall be provided
within a Private Garage.  These required parking spaces shall not be provided
or maintained within a required Front Yard, unless otherwise permitted by
Subparagraph (10) of Paragraph (a) of this Subdivision 10.	(i)	Exception for
Dwelling on Narrow Lot.  Where only one One-Family Dwelling is located on a
nonconforming Lot 40 feet or less in width and not abutting an alley, only one
Automobile Parking Space need be provided.  This exception shall not apply to
any Lot which fronts on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street.	(2)	Additional
Required Spaces.  For a main Building and any Accessory Building located on a
Lot which fronts on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street, excluding Floor Area
devoted to required parking, which exceed a combined Residential Floor Area of
2,400 square feet, there shall be one additional parking space provided for each
additional increment of 1,000 square feet or fraction thereof of Floor Area for
a maximum of 5 total on-site spaces.  These additional required parking spaces
may be uncovered.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subparagraph (1) of this
Paragraph (g), when a Lot fronts onto a Substandard Hillside Limited Street, the
additional parking spaces may be located within the required Front
Yard.	(i)	Zoning Administrator’s Authority.  A Zoning Administrator may
reduce the number of off-street parking spaces required by Subparagraph (2) of
this Paragraph (g), pursuant to the authority and procedures established in
Subdivision 28. of Subsection X. of Section 12.24 of this Code.	(3)	Parking
Stall Dimensions.  In each parking area or garage devoted to parking for
Dwelling uses, all Parking Stalls in excess of one per Dwelling Unit may be
designed as compact stalls to accommodate parking cars.  Every standard Parking
Stall provided for Dwelling Units shall be at least 8 feet 6 inches in width and
18 feet in length; every compact stall shall be at least 7 feet 6 inches in
width and 15 feet in length.	(4)	Tandem Parking.  Automobile parking may be
parked in tandem in a Private Garage or Private Parking Area serving a
One-Family Dwelling where the tandem parking is not more than two cars in
depth.  Each required Parking Stall within a parking area or garage shall be
accessible.  Tandem parking shall not be allowed in parking areas for
recreational vehicles.	(5)	Garage Doors.  Any door or doors installed at the
automobile entry to a garage serving a One-Family Dwelling where the required
parking spaces are located shall be of conventional design constructed so as to
permit the simultaneous entry of automobiles in each required parking space
without damaging the door or door frame and constructed so as to permit the flow
of air through the automobile entry when the door is in the fully closed
position.	(6)	Driveway Width.  Every access driveway shall be at least 9 feet
in width.	(7)	Mechanical Automobile Lifts and Robotic Parking Structures.  The
stacking of two or more automobiles via a mechanical car lift or computerized
parking Structure is permitted.  The platform of the mechanical lift on which
the automobile is first placed shall be individually and easily accessible and
shall be placed so that the location of the platform and vehicular access to the
platform meet the requirements of Paragraphs (a), (b), and (i) of Subdivision 5.
of Subsection A. of Section 12.21 of this Code.  The lift equipment or
computerized parking Structure shall meet any applicable Building, Mechanical
and Electrical Code requirements as approved by the Department of Building and
Safety.	(h)	Fire Protection.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code
to the contrary, on a Lot fronting onto a Substandard Hillside Limited Street,
or on any Lot located either more than 2 miles from a fire station housing a Los
Angeles City Fire Department Truck Company or more than 1 1/2 miles from a fire
station housing a Los Angeles Fire Department Engine Company, the following fire
protection measures shall be required.	(1)	New Buildings or Structures.  Any
new construction of a One-Family Dwelling or detached Accessory Building shall
be protected throughout with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system, in
compliance with the Los Angeles Plumbing Code.	(2)	Existing Buildings or
Structures.  An approved automatic fire sprinkler system in compliance with the
Los Angeles Plumbing Code shall be installed:	(i)	whenever an addition to an
existing One-Family Dwelling or Accessory Building increases Residential Floor
Area by 50% or more of the area of the existing Dwelling or Building;
or	(ii)	whenever the aggregate value of Major Remodels within a one-year period
exceeds 50% of the replacement cost of the Dwelling or Accessory
Building.	(3)	Fire Sprinkler Coverage.  The sprinkler systems required in this
Paragraph shall be sufficient to cover the entire Dwelling or Building, unless
otherwise determined by the Department of Building and Safety, and shall be
installed in compliance with all applicable Codes.	(4)	Exempt Accessory
Structures.  The provisions of this Paragraph shall not apply to accessory
Structures such as gazebos, pergolas, or storage sheds provided these Structures
are not supported by or attached to any portion of a Dwelling or Accessory
Building and do not exceed 200 square feet in area.	(i)	Street
Access.	(1)	Street Dedication.  For any new construction of, or addition to, a
One-Family Dwelling on a Lot fronting on a Substandard Hillside Limited Street,
no Building permit or Grading permit shall be issued unless at least one-half of
the width of the Street(s) has been dedicated for the full width of the Frontage
of the Lot to Standard Hillside Limited Street dimensions or to a lesser width
as determined by the City Engineer.  The appellate procedures provided in
Section 12.37 I. of this Code shall be available for relief from this
requirement.	(2)	Adjacent Minimum Roadway Width.  For any new construction of,
or addition to a One-Family Dwelling on a Lot fronting on a Substandard Hillside
Limited Street that is improved with a roadway width of less than 20 feet, no
Building permit or Grading permit shall be issued unless the construction or
addition has been approved pursuant to Section 12.24 X.28. of this
Code.	(3)	Minimum Roadway Width (Continuous Paved Roadway).  For any new
construction of, or addition to, a One-Family Dwelling on a Lot that does not
have a vehicular access route from a Street improved with a minimum 20-foot wide
continuous paved roadway from the driveway apron that provides access to the
main residence to the boundary of the Hillside Area, no Building permit or
Grading permit shall be issued unless the construction or addition meets the
requirements of this Subdivision 10. or has been approved by a Zoning
Administrator pursuant to Section 12.24 X.28. of this Code.	(j)	Sewer
Connection.  No Building permit shall be issued for the construction of any new
One-Family Dwelling on a Lot located 200 feet or less from a sewer mainline
unless a sewer connection is provided to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer.	(k)	Hillside Standards Overlay Districts.  The provisions of
Paragraphs (b) (Maximum Residential Floor Area), (d) (Height Limits), and (f)
(Grading) of this Subdivision 10. may be superseded by a Hillside Neighborhood
Overlay adopted pursuant to Section 13.14 of this Code.	(l)	Exceptions.  The
provision of this Subdivision shall not apply to:	(1)	Tracts With CC&#038;Rs
Approved After February 1, 1985. One-Family Dwellings, Accessory Buildings and
additions thereto within a subdivision for which a tentative or final tract map
was approved by the City of Los Angeles after February 1, 1985, and is still
valid, provided that the map resulted in the establishment of covenants,
conditions and restrictions governing Building height, yards, open space or Lot
coverage, and provided, further, that such covenants, conditions and
restrictions were recorded on or after February 1, 1985.	(2)	Additions to
Dwellings Built Prior to August 1, 2010. Any additions made after August 1,
2010, to a One-Family Dwelling existing prior to that date for which Building
permits have been previously obtained, provided that:	(i)	the total cumulative
Residential Floor Area of all such additions does not exceed 500 square feet
(excluded from calculations of this 500 square foot limitations is Floor Area
devoted to required covered parking); and 	(ii)	the resulting Building complies
with the requirements of Paragraphs (a) (Setback Requirements), (d) (Height
Limits), and (f) (Grading) of this Subdivision 10.	(3)	Hillside Major Remodel. 
As defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, any remodeling of a main Building on a
Lot in the Hillside Area, which does not add square footage and for which the
aggregate value of all the alterations within a one-year period does not exceed
50% of the replacement cost of the main Building.	(4)	Northeast Los Angeles
Hillside Ordinance.  Properties subject to the Northeast Los Angeles Hillside
Ordinance established by Ordinance No. 180,403, shall be exempted from
Paragraphs (b) (Maximum Residential Floor Area), (d) (Height Limits), and (f)
(Grading) of this Subdivision 10.	(5)	The Oaks Hillside Ordinance.  Properties
subject to The Oaks Hillside Ordinance established by Ordinance No. 181,136,
shall be exempted from Paragraphs (b) (Maximum Residential Floor Area), (d)
(Height Limits), and (e) (Lot Coverage) of this Subdivision 10.	(6)	Large Active
Remedial Grading Projects.  Properties with active Remedial Grading permits for
100,000 cubic yards or more which have been issued by the Department of Building
and Safety – Grading Division before July 1, 2010, are exempted from
Paragraphs (b) (Maximum Residential Floor Area), (d) (Height Limits, and (f)
Grading of this Subdivision.  Such properties shall remain subject to the
provisions of Subdivision 17. of Subsection A. of Section 12.21 of this Code,
and Section 12.21.1 of this Code, and all other zoning and Building regulations
applicable at the time Building Permits are issued.  This exception shall
expire 60 months after July 1, 2010.	D.	Location Of Hospitals.  No hospital,
sanitarium or clinic for mental, or drug or liquor addict cases shall be
established or maintained on any property within 600 feet of the property on
which an elementary or high school is being maintained.	E.	Use Of Future Streets
And Alleys.  (Added by Ord. No. 129,499, Eff. 3/28/65.)  No building or
structure, except a fence, shall be erected or maintained on any portion of a
lot which has been designated as a future street or alley, as provided for in
Article 7 hereof, nor shall any portion of said future street or future alley be
used in providing minimum off-street parking required by this
section.	F.	On-Site Shopping Cart Containment.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,121,
Eff. 6/20/12.)	1.	Purpose.  It is the purpose of this subsection to prevent or
reduce the accumulation of shopping carts abandoned in neighborhoods. 
Abandoned shopping carts cause visual blight in neighborhoods, reduce property
values in communities, obstruct pedestrian and vehicular traffic in the public
rights-of-way, and constitute a hazard to the health, safety, and general
welfare of the public throughout the City of Los Angeles.  Therefore,
development standards are established for projects involving any new retail
establishment, or the major remodel of a retail establishment, that provide six
or more shopping carts on-site for use by its patrons.	2.	Definitions. 
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to the contrary, the following
definitions shall apply to this subsection:	(a)	Abandoned Shopping Cart.  A
shopping cart located beyond the premises of a retail establishment that
furnishes shopping carts for use by its patrons.	(b)	Bollard.  An upright post
consisting of a piece of timber, concrete, metal or similar material fixed
firmly in an upright position that creates a narrowed passageway restricting the
removal of shopping carts from the premises.	(c)	Bureau of Street Services. 
The Bureau of Street Services of the Department of Public Works or successor
agency.	(d)	Major Remodel.  A major remodel is either:	(1)	An addition in
excess of 50 percent of the current floor area of a retail establishment that
provides at least six or more shopping carts for its patrons, or	(2)	An
alteration, repair, remodel, or addition with a total building permit valuation
in excess of 50 percent of the replacement cost of a building, or portion of a
building, occupied by a retail establishment that provides at least six or more
shopping carts for its patrons.	(e)	Parking Area.  The parking lot or other
property provided by a retail establishment for use by its patrons for parking
automobiles or other vehicles.	(f)	Premises.  The area maintained or managed by
a retail establishment that provides at least six or more shopping carts for its
patrons, including the building, parking area, and adjacent
walkways.	(g)	Project.  A new retail establishment, or the major remodel of a
retail establishment, that provides or maintains at least six or more shopping
carts for use by its patrons.	(h)	Shopping Cart.  A basket of any size, mounted
on wheels, rollers or a similar device, including parts, provided by a retail
establishment for the purpose of transporting groceries or merchandise of any
kind within a retail establishment or parking area of that retail
establishment.	4.	Application.  The development standards and containment
methods set forth herein to contain shopping carts on premises shall apply to 
new retail establishments, or the major remodel of retail establishments, after
the effective date of this ordinance.	5.	Containment Methods.  A project shall
include at least one of the permitted methods to contain shopping carts on the
premises.  Permitted methods are limited to:	(a)	Bollards.  Installation of
bollards;	(b)	Wheel Locking or Stopping Mechanisms.  Equipping shopping carts
with a wheel locking or stopping mechanism that is used in conjunction with an
electronic magnetic barrier along the perimeter of the retail establishment. 
The wheel locking or stopping mechanism must activate when the shopping cart
crosses the electronic or magnetic barrier;	(c)	Customer Service.  Designation
of certain employees to prevent the removal of shopping carts from the premises
by assisting patrons with transporting groceries or merchandise to patrons’
vehicles and then returning shopping carts to the location where the retail
establishment keeps the shopping carts for its patrons;	(d)	Other Methods. 
Other methods for onsite containment so long as the Bureau of Street Services
has approved the system or method which would effectively contain or control
shopping carts on the premises.	6.	Enforcement.  Notwithstanding the provisions
of Section 12.26 of this Code, the Bureau of Street Services shall have the
authority and responsibility to enforce this subsection.	G.	Open Space
Requirement for Six or More Residential Units.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,753,
Eff. 11/17/97.)	1.	Purpose.  It is the purpose of this subsection to establish
reasonable and uniform regulations to provide usable open space as a means to
fulfill the following objectives: afford occupants of multiple residential
dwelling units opportunities for outdoor living and recreation; provide safer
play areas for children as an alternative to the surrounding streets, parking
areas, and alleys; improve the aesthetic quality of multiple residential
dwelling units by providing relief to the massing of buildings through the use
of landscape materials and reduced lot coverage; and provide a more desirable
living environment for occupants of multiple residential dwelling units by
increasing natural light and ventilation, improving pedestrian circulation and
providing access to on-site recreation facilities.	2.	Regulations.  New
construction (resulting in additional floor area and additional units) of a
building or group of buildings containing six or more dwelling units on a lot
shall provide at a minimum the following usable open space per dwelling unit:
100 square feet for each unit having less than three habitable rooms; 125 square
feet for each unit having three habitable rooms; and 175 square feet for each
unit having more than three habitable rooms.	For purposes of this subsection,
usable open space shall mean an area which is designed and intended to be used
for active or passive recreation.  Usable open space may consist of private
and/or common area as further defined and regulated herein.  Parking areas,
including access aisles, driveways, and required front and side yards, open
space areas located above the first habitable room level, except as otherwise
provided for herein, shall not qualify as usable open space.	(a)	Common Open
Space:	(1)	Common open space shall meet each of the following
requirements:	(i)	Be open to the sky and have no structures that project into
the common open space area, except as provided in Section 12.22
C.20.(b),	(ii)	Be readily accessible to all the residents of the
site,	(iii)	Have a minimum area of 400 sq. ft. with no horizontal dimension less
than 15 feet when measured perpendicular from any point on each of the
boundaries of the open space area,	(iv)	Constitute at least 50% of the total
required usable open space in developments built at an R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4,
and/or R5 density regardless of the underlying zone.  (Amended by Ord. No.
174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)	(v)	Be located at the grade level or first habitable
room level, except in developments built at an R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, and/or R5
density regardless of the underlying zone.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff.
1/15/03.)	(2)	Common open space areas shall incorporate recreational amenities
such as swimming pools, spas, picnic tables, benches, children’s play areas,
ball courts, barbecue areas and sitting areas.  Amenities that meet the
Department of Recreation and Parks specifications pursuant to Section 17.12 F.
of this Code may be credited against fees required under Section 12.33 of this
Code.	(3)	A minimum of 25 percent of the common open space area shall be planted
with ground cover, shrubs or trees.  At least one 24-inch box tree for every
four dwelling units shall be provided on site and may include street trees in
the parkway.  For a surface area not located directly on finished grade that is
used for common open space, and located at ground level or the first habitable
room level, shrubs and/or trees shall be contained within permanent planters at
least 30-inches in depth, and lawn or ground cover shall be at least 12-inches
in depth.  All required landscaped areas shall be equipped with an automatic
irrigation system and be properly drained.	The Director of Planning or the
Director’s designee shall have the authority to review and approve or
disapprove all proposed landscape plans submitted in compliance with this
paragraph.	(4)	Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in this
paragraph:	(i)	Recreation rooms at least 600 square feet in area for a
development of 16 or more dwelling units, or at least 400 square feet in area
for a development of fewer than 16 dwelling units, may qualify as common open
space, but shall not qualify for more than 25 percent of the total required
usable open space.	(ii)	Roof decks in developments built at an R3 or an RAS3
density, regardless of the underlying zone, may be used as common open space,
excluding that portion of the roof within ten feet from the parapet wall. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)	(iii)	Roof decks in developments
built at an R4, RAS4, and/or R5 density, regardless of the underlying zone, may
be used in their entirety as common open space.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999,
Eff. 1/15/03.)	(b)	Private Open Space.  Private open space is an open space
area which is contiguous to and immediately accessible from a single dwelling
unit and which meets all of the following requirements of the zones herein
specified:	(1)	In the RD 1.5 and more restrictive zones:	(i)	private open space
shall be located at grade level or the first habitable room level and be open to
the sky. Structures may project no more than three feet into the private open
space area, provided there is a minimum eight foot vertical clearance under the
projection, except as provided in Section 12.22 C.20.(b);	(ii)	private open
space shall be enclosed by a solid fence at least four feet in height;
and	(iii)	the private open space area shall have no horizontal dimension less
than eight feet, when measured perpendicular from any point on each of the
boundaries of the open space area and contain a minimum of 100 square feet of
which no more than 100 square feet per dwelling unit shall be attributable to
the total required open space.	(2)	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff.
1/15/03.)  In developments built at an R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, and/or R5 density
regardless of the underlying zone, private open space may be provided above the
first habitable room level.  When so provided, it shall: 	(i)	contain a
minimum of 50 square feet of which no more than 50 square feet per dwelling unit
shall be attributable to the total required usable open space;	(ii)	have no
horizontal dimension less than six feet when measured perpendicular from any
point on each of the boundaries of the open space area; and	(iii)	provide a
minimum eight foot vertical clearance under any projection, except as provided
in Section 12.22 C.20.(b); and	(iv)	that portion of a balcony which extends or
projects into a required front yard in compliance with Section 12.22 C.20.(d)
may qualify as usable open space provided it meets each of the above specified
requirements set forth in this subparagraph.	3.	Director’s Decision. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)  If a development proposed with an
R3, RAS3, R4, RAS4, or R5 density, regardless of the underlying zone, fails to
meet the open space standards of this subsection, an applicant may apply to the
Director of Planning for a Director’s Decision.  The applicant shall file an
application in the public office of the Department of City Planning upon a form
prescribed for that purpose and pay a filing fee equivalent to that established
for a “Miscellaneous Plan Approval.”  This fee is set forth in Section
19.01 I. of this Code.  The application shall be accompanied by architectural,
landscape and structural plans for the development, and other information as
required by the Director of Planning.  All open space areas for the development
shall be clearly identified in the materials submitted.	(a)	No decision granting
approval under this subdivision shall exceed:	(1)	a ten percent reduction in the
total required usable open space, provided that any reduction is to the common
open space portion only; or	(2)	a ten percent increase in the qualifying area of
recreation rooms up to a maximum of 35 percent of the total required usable open
space; or	(3)	a ten percent reduction in the required area for planting of
ground cover, shrubs and trees in common open space, but that reduction shall
not decrease the total required usable open space.	(b)	Decision.  The Director
shall make a decision of approval, conditional approval or disapproval within 25
calendar days of the Department’s acceptance of an application.  Notice of
the Director’s decision shall be mailed to the applicant, the City
Councilmember in whose District the property is located, and to all owners and
lessees of property within a radius of 500 feet of the property.  The decision
of the Director shall include written findings in support of the decision.  In
order to approve a proposed development pursuant to this subsection, the
Director must find:	(1)	that the open space provided conforms with the
objectives of this subsection, and	(2)	that the proposed project complies with
the total usable open space requirements.	(c)	Appeals.  The decision of the
Director shall become final after an elapsed period of 15 calendar days from the
date of mailing of the decision to the applicant, unless an appeal is filed with
the Area Planning Commission within that period.  The applicant, the City
Councilmember in whose District the property is located, or any other interested
person adversely affected by the decision of the Director may appeal to the Area
Planning Commission.  Appeals shall be processed in accordance with Section
12.24 I.
