                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AREAS. (§
12.21.3)

  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT PLAN AREAS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.)	Within the boundaries of a Community
Redevelopment Plan Area for which a redevelopment plan has been adopted pursuant
to the California Community Redevelopment Law, the height district limitations
set forth below in Subsections A through F shall apply:	A.	The total floor area
contained in all the buildings on a lot in Height District No. CRA 1 shall not
exceed three times the buildable area of said lot.	Portions of Height District
No. CRA 1 may be designated as being in an “L” Limited Height District, and
no building or structure in Height District No. CRA 1L shall exceed six stories,
nor shall it exceed 75 feet in height.  Portions of Height District No. CRA 1
may be designated as being in a “VL” Very Limited Height District, and no
building or structure in Height District No. CRA 1-VL shall exceed three
stories, nor shall it exceed 45 feet in height.  Notwithstanding that
limitation, portions of Height District No. CRA 1-VL that are also in the RAS3
or RAS4 zones shall not exceed 50 feet in height. Portions of Height District
No. CRA 1 may also be designated as being in an “XL” Extra Limited Height
District, and no building or structure in Height District No. CRA 1-XL shall
exceed two stories, nor shall the highest point of the roof of any building or
structure located in such District exceed 30 feet in height.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)	EXCEPTION:  A building in Height District Nos. CRA
1-XL, CRA 1-VL and CRA 1-L designed and used entirely for residential purposes,
or in the RAS3 or RAS4 Zones, shall be limited as to the number of feet in
height, but not as to the number of stories.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999,
Eff. 1/15/03.)	B.	The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot
in Height District No. CRA2 shall not exceed six times the buildable area of
said lot.	C.	The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in
Height District No. CRA3 shall not exceed ten times the buildable area of said
lot.	D.	The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot in Height
District No. CRA4 shall not exceed thirteen times the buildable area of said
lot.	E.	Buildings and structures shall further comply with the provisions of
Section 12.21.1 A 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 and Section 12.21.1 B 1, 2, 3 and
4.	F.	Additional limitations on the height and/or floor area of any building or
structure may be required as set forth in each applicable Community
Redevelopment Plan.[Editor's note:  Maps formerly associated with this section
were deleted by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.]
