                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEDICATION OF STREETS BY LONG TERM LEASES. (§ 12.38)

  DEDICATION OF STREETS BY LONG TERM LEASES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 157,737, Eff. 7/25/83.)	A.	Eligibility. A lessee holding a
parcel of real property under a long term lease may offer to dedicate or convey
a street easement for the term of the lease only in satisfaction of the
requirements of Section 12.37 of this Code providing the following conditions
are met.	1.	Such lease is of record in the office of the County Recorder, and
the lessee certifies under penalty of perjury that, except for the rental
provided for by such lease, the owners will receive no financial benefit or
other income from the proposed development during the term of the lease.	2.	The
area of real property to be so dedicated will be used for sidewalk only, and not
for vehicular traffic and not for the installation of any subsurface or above
surface lines, pipes, or other public or private utility facilities, except for
such facilities which will connect from the fully dedicated streets into the
buildings to be constructed.	3.	That notwithstanding that the adjacent public
street is fully improved with all improvements as specified in Section
12.37-A-3, the sidewalk will be fully constructed and all other necessary or
desirable public improvements in the adjacent street will be fully constructed
by the lessee as a part of its development on the leasehold estate, and the
lessee shall post the requisite bonds to guarantee such construction, and	4.	The
total value of the improvements to be constructed for which the dedication is
required is $3,000,000.00 or more, as determined by the Department of Building
and Safety.	B.	Dedication Document. The dedication of the leasehold estate for
street purposes pursuant to this section shall be a form of deed making specific
reference to the document creating the leasehold estate and the deed shall
convey only the leasehold rights. The City Engineer is authorized to accept such
deeds and place same of record with the County Recorder of Los Angeles County
without further authority of the City Council, upon the approval of such deed as
to form by the City Attorney. Dedication of a leasehold estate for street
purposes shall not be approved and no building shall issue if the City Attorney
determines that the granting of such public right will cause a forfeiture or
termination of the leasehold rights in the area to be dedicated.
