                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROHIBITION. (§ 14.5.4)

  PROHIBITION.	A.	No building permit shall be issued for a Project on any lot
within the Central City TFAR Area, which is not located within the City Center
Redevelopment Project Area, that exceeds a Floor Area Ratio greater than 6:1 or
3:1, as set forth by the applicable zoning and in the Community Plan, except for
the following:	1.	Development permitted by Section 12.23 A. of this Code, when
in conformance with the applicable height district designations of the zoning
and the Community Plan; and	2.	 Development permitted as a result of a Transfer
of Floor Area Rights or a Director’s Determination for a Floor Area Deviation
approved pursuant to this article; and	3.	 Development permitted as a result of
a Transfer of Floor Area Rights pursuant to Section 418, or a density variation
pursuant to Section 437, of the former Central Business District Redevelopment
Plan, approved by the Agency Board or Commission prior to June 21, 1988;
and	4.	Development permitted as a result of a Transfer of Floor Area Rights or
density variation of less than 50,000 square feet, approved by the Agency Board
or the Commission, pursuant to the former Central Business District
Redevelopment Plan prior to amendments adopted May 1, 2002, or the Amended
Central Business District Redevelopment Plan prior to its expiration on July 18,
2010; and	5.	 Residential Projects that exceed the number of dwelling units or
Floor Area permitted by the zoning or the Community Plan as a result of a
density or Floor Area bonus received pursuant to Sections 12.22 A.25., 12.22
A.29., 12.24 U.26. or 12.24 U.27. of this Code.	B.	No building permit shall be
issued for a Project, on any lot within the City Center Redevelopment Project
Area, which exceeds a Floor Area Ratio greater than 6:1 or 3:1, as set forth
with respect to a particular lot in Section 512 of the Redevelopment Plan and in
the Community Plan, except for the following:	1.	Development permitted by
Sections 512.2 (Rehabilitation and/or Remodeling of Existing Buildings) and
512.3 (Replacement of Existing Buildings) of the Redevelopment Plan, when in
conformance with the applicable height district designations of the
Redevelopment Plan and the Community Plan; and	2.	Development permitted as a
result of a Transfer of Floor Area Rights approved pursuant to this article;
and	3.	Development permitted as a result of a Transfer of Floor Area Rights
pursuant to Section 512.7, or density variation of less than 50,000 square feet,
approved by the Agency Board or Commission pursuant to Sections 512.6 and 520 of
the Redevelopment Plan; and	4.	Residential Projects that exceed the number of
dwelling units or Floor Area permitted by the zoning or the Community Plan as a
result of a density or Floor Area bonus received pursuant to Sections 12.22
A.25., 12.22 A.29., 12.24 U.26. or 12.24 U.27. of this Code.
