                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. (§ 14.5.8)

  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.	A.	The Department shall establish an accounting of all
Transfers and Public Benefit Payments in the Central City TFAR Area.  The
accountings shall be transmitted annually to the Commission for its review and
shall include the amount of floor area restricted on each Donor Site and added
to each Receiver Site and the dollar amount and related calculation for each
approved Transfer Plan.	1.	The Department shall maintain a record of the
available Floor Area Rights in the Central City TFAR Area, and any Transfers and
other records as may be necessary or desirable to provide an up-to-date account
of the Floor Area Rights available for use in the Central City TFAR Area.  The
records shall be available for public inspection.	2.	The Department shall
maintain an accounting of all Public Benefit Payments derived from Transfers,
and an accounting of all allocations of the Public Benefit Payments.  The
records shall be available for public inspection.	B.	The Department shall
establish a procedure to coordinate the obtaining of timely responses from
affected City departments and agencies on each Project involving a Transfer, as
a part of the early consultation process, referenced above.	C.	Any Transfer
approved pursuant to this article shall be evidenced by a recorded document,
signed by both the owner of the Donor Site and the owner of the Receiver Site
and in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney and designed to run with the
land.  When the owner of the Donor Site is the City, the Director shall be the
signatory on behalf of the City on the recorded document.  This document shall
clearly set forth the amount of Floor Area Rights transferred and restrict the
allowable Floor Area remaining on the Donor Site.
