                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REMEDIES. (§ 151.10)

  REMEDIES.	A.	Any person who demands, accepts or retains any payment of rent
in excess of the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, or any regulations or orders promulgated hereunder,
shall be liable in a civil action to the person from whom such payment is
demanded, accepted or retained for damages of three times the amount by which
the payment or payments demanded, accepted or retained exceed the maximum rent
or maximum adjusted rent which could be lawfully demanded, accepted or retained
together with reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs as determined by the
court.	B.	(Amended by Ord. No. 160,791, Eff. 2/10/86.)  Any person violating
any of the provisions, or failing to comply with any of the requirements of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor except that violation of Subsections
A., B. or D. of Section 151.09 shall not constitute a misdemeanor.	Any person
who willfully or knowingly with the intent to deceive, makes a false statement
or representation, or knowingly fails to disclose a material fact, in a notice
or declaration required under Subsection C. or I. of Section 151.09 or in any
declaration, application, hearing or appeal permitted under this chapter,
including any oral or written evidence presented in support thereof, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.	Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under the
provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than
six months or both.  Each violation of any provision of this chapter and each
day during which such violation is committed, or continues, shall constitute a
separate offense. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,865, Eff. 1/19/87.)	Any person who
willfully or knowingly with the intent to deceive, makes a false statement or
representation, or knowingly fails to disclose a material fact, in a notice or
declaration required under 153.03 A.2.a. of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,074, Eff.
6/23/96.)	C.	Penalties for Violation of State Law Regarding Residential Hotel
Occupants.  Civil Code Section 1940.1 permits municipalities, among other
things, to create remedies by local ordinance for violations of Civil Code
Section 1940.1(a).  It is the purpose of this subdivision to implement Civil
Code Section 1940.1.  In addition to any penalties provided by State law, a
violation of Civil Code Section 1940.1 is  punishable as a misdemeanor. 
(Added by Ord. No. 176,472, Eff. 3/26/05.)	D.	Any agreement, whether written or
oral, waiving any of the provisions contained in this Article shall be void as
contrary to public policy.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff.
7/15/11.)	E.	Nothing in this Article shall be construed to deprive a person of
due process rights guaranteed by law, including, but not limited to, a right to
appeal the Department’s determination regarding a Tenant Habitability Plan to
a hearing officer.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)
