                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

151.15.PENALTIES FOR LATE REGISTRATION AND FOR FAILURE TO POST NOTICE THAT
PROPERTY IS SUBJECT TO THE RENT STABILIZATION ORDINANCE. (§ 151.15)

  151.15.  PENALTIES FOR LATE REGISTRATION AND FOR FAILURE TO POST NOTICE THAT
PROPERTY IS SUBJECT TO THE RENT STABILIZATION ORDINANCE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	Any landlord who fails to pay the
fee for registration or registration renewal in accordance with the provisions
of Section 151.05 of this Chapter shall be deemed delinquent.  The landlord
shall pay a penalty equal to one hundred and fifty percent of the fee per
subject rental unit for any delinquency incurred after the effective date of
this amendment.	For any delinquency incurred prior to the effective date of this
amendment, the landlord shall pay a penalty of $6.00 for a delinquency incurred
prior to January 1, 1989, and a penalty of $14.00 for a delinquency incurred
subsequent to January 1, 1989, and prior to the effective date of this
amendment.  Any landlord who pays a fee after the Department has notified the
landlord of the landlord’s delinquency in failing to comply with the
registration requirements of this Chapter prior to the effective date of this
amendment shall pay a penalty of $15.00 for a delinquency incurred prior to
January 1, 1989, and a penalty of $28.00 for a delinquency incurred subsequent
to January 1, 1989, and prior to the effective date of this amendment per
subject rental unit in addition to the amount of the fee.	The Department shall
notify a landlord of failure to post a notice in accordance with the provisions
of Subsection I. of Section 151.05 of this Chapter.  If a landlord fails to
post the notice within seven days of Department notification, the landlord shall
pay a fine of $250 for each day after the seventh day that the landlord fails to
post the notice.	If the Department determines that good cause exists for a
landlord’s failure to timely pay the registration fee in accordance with the
provisions of Section 151.05 of this Chapter, or failure to post a notice in
accordance with the provisions of Subsection I. of Section 151.05 of this
Chapter, the Department may waive the penalties or fines required by this
Section.  The Department may promulgate such rules and regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this Section.
