                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REGISTRATION, NOTIFICATION OF TENANTS, POSTING OF NOTICE AND PAYMENT OF FEES.
(§ 151.05)

  REGISTRATION, NOTIFICATION OF TENANTS, POSTING OF NOTICE AND PAYMENT OF FEES.
	(Title Amended by Ord. No. 180,769, Eff. 8/16/09.)	A.	(Amended by Ord. No.
157,572, Eff. 4/1/83.)  On or after July, 1979, no landlord shall demand or
accept rent for a rental unit without first procuring and serving on the tenant
or displaying in a conspicuous place a valid written registration statement from
the Department or its designee. On or after April 30, 1983, no landlord shall
demand or accept rent for a rental unit without first serving a copy of a valid
registration or annual registration renewal statement on the tenant of that
rental unit.	1.	Every rental unit registration and registration statement issued
on or before April 29, 1980 shall expire at midnight April 30, 1980. 
Applications for registration renewal for a previously registered unit shall be
made to the Department or its designee no later than June 15, 1980. However, a
landlord may continue to accept or demand rent for a previously registered unit
without a current registration statement until July 1, 1980.	2.	For a rental
unit which first becomes subject to this chapter between May 1, 1980 and
December 31, 1980, inclusive, the landlord shall procure a registration
statement.	3.	The registration or registration renewal statement issued pursuant
to Subdivision 1. or 2. above shall expire on March 31, 1981.  A landlord who
accepts or demands rent for a rental unit on or after January 1, 1981 shall
procure a valid registration statement.  Application for such registration
statement shall be made to the Department or its designee no later than February
14, 1981.	4.	The registration or registration statement issued pursuant to
Subdivision 3. above shall expire on March 31, 1982.  A landlord who accepts or
demands rent for a rental unit on or after January 1, 1982 shall procure a valid
registration statement.  Applications for such registration statement shall be
made to the Department or its designee no later than February 14, 1982 and any
statement so issued shall expire on April 30, 1983.	5.	On or after June 1, 1982,
a landlord who accepts or demands rent for a rental unit on or after the first
day of January of each year shall procure a valid registration or annual
registration renewal statement.  Application for a registration or annual
registration renewal statement shall be made to the Department or its designee
no later than the last day of February of each year, and the statement so issued
shall expire on the last day of April of the following year, except that the
1996 registration statement shall expire on June 30, 1997.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 171,648, Eff. 8/3/97.)	B.	The Department or its designee shall, upon the
payment of all outstanding fees imposed pursuant to this Chapter and furnishing
of an emergency contact, including the contact’s name, address and phone
number, register or renew the registration of a rental unit.  For any rental
unit for which a registration or annual registration renewal statement is
required, a registration or annual registration renewal fee shall be paid. 
This fee shall be due and payable on the first day of January of each year, and
shall be deemed delinquent if not paid on or before the last day of the month of
February of each year.  The fees required hereunder shall be as follows: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	1.	For a rental unit for which a
landlord accepts or demands rent between May 1, 1979 and April 30, 1980,
inclusive, there shall be an initial registration fee of three dollars, and if
rent for such rental unit is accepted or demanded between May 1, 1980 and
December 31, 1980 inclusive, there shall also be paid a registration renewal fee
of three dollars.	2.	For a rental unit which first becomes subject to this
chapter between May 1, 1980 and December 31, 1980 inclusive, there shall be an
initial registration fee of three dollars; and	3.	For any rental unit for which
a landlord accepts or demands rent on or after January 1, 1981, there shall be a
registration or registration renewal fee of four dollars.	4.	For any rental unit
for which a landlord accepts or demands rent between January 1, 1982 and
December 31, 1982 inclusive, there shall be a registration or registration
renewal fee of seven dollars.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82,
Oper. 5/15/82.)	5.	For any rental unit for which a registration or annual
registration renewal statement is required, a registration or annual
registration renewal fee shall be paid.  This fee shall be due and payable on
the first day of January of each year, and shall be deemed delinquent if not
paid on or before the last day of the following month.  The amount of this fee
shall be twenty-four dollars and fifty-one cents ($24.51).  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,966, Eff. 12/20/11.)	C.	The landlord shall maintain records setting
forth the maximum rent for each rental unit.  Each landlord who demands or
accepts a higher rent than said maximum rent shall inform the tenant or any
prospective tenant of the rental unit in writing of the factual justification
for the difference between said maximum rent and the rent which the landlord is
currently charging or proposes to charge.  (Amended by Ord. No. 154,237, Eff.
8/30/80, Oper. 9/1/80.)	D.	For a rental unit for which a four dollar fee has
been paid pursuant to Subdivision 3. of Subsection B. of this section, the
landlord, for the month of April, 1981, and on a one time basis only, may demand
and collect a total of four dollars per rental unit from the tenant of the
rental unit after serving the tenant with a thirty days written notice on a form
provided by the Department explaining the nature of the onetime charge. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 154,237, Eff. 8/30/80, Oper. 9/1/80.)	E.	For a rental unit
for which a registration or registration renewal fee has been paid pursuant to
Subdivision 4. of Subsection B. of this section, the landlord, for the month of
June, 1982, and on a one-time basis only may demand and collect a total of four
dollars per rental unit from the tenant of the rental unit after serving the
tenant with a thirty days written notice on a form provided by the Department
explaining the nature of the one-time charge. (Added by Ord. No. 155,561, Eff.
8/9/81.)	F.	For a rental unit for which the registration or annual registration
renewal fee has been paid pursuant to Subdivision 5. of Subsection B. of this
section, the landlord may demand and collect a rental surcharge of $9.35 (nine
dollars and 35 cents) from the tenant of the rental unit after serving the
tenant with a 30-day written notice in a form prescribed by the Department. 
(First Paragraph Amended by Ord. No. 177,107, Eff. 12/18/05, Oper. 1/1/06.)	The
rental surcharge may only be collected in June of the year in which the
registration or annual registration fee became due and payable, provided that
the landlord is not delinquent in the payment of the registration or annual
registration renewal fee.  Except that, during the 1997 registration cycle, the
tenant surcharge may be collected during any month prior to December 31, 1997
subject to the notification requirement described above and provided that the
landlord is not delinquent in the payment of the registration or annual
registration renewal fee.  (Second Para. Amended by Ord. No. 171,648, Eff.
8/3/97.)	G.	The landlord of a rental unit which is not registered with the
Department shall provide the Department, on the form approved by the Department
and accompanied by supporting documentation, a written declaration stating the
facts upon which the landlord bases a claim of exclusion from the provisions of
this Chapter.  If a landlord fails to submit a written declaration and
supporting documents by the last day of the month of January of each year, the
unit shall be deemed to be subject to the provisions of this Chapter and any
fees collected shall be non-refundable.  If a landlord declares that the rental
unit is not subject to the registration requirements of this Subsection because
the rental unit is vacant, the landlord shall provide the Department with a copy
of a notice recorded against the property declaring that the unit is and shall
remain vacant, and the unit shall be secured against unauthorized entry. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	H.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 181,744,
Eff. 7/15/11.)	I.	For every property for which a landlord is required to procure
a written registration statement pursuant to the provisions of Subsection A. of
this Section, the landlord shall post a notice on a form prescribed by the
Department, providing information about the Rent Stabilization Ordinance and
Department contact information.  Notices must be posted in a conspicuous
location in the lobby of the property, near a mailbox used by all residents on
the property, or in or near a public entrance to the property.  The notice
shall be written in English and Spanish, and in any other languages as required
by the Department.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,769, Eff. 8/16/09.)
