                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LAND USE PROCEEDINGS. (§ 16.02)

  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LAND USE PROCEEDINGS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	Notwithstanding any
provision of Articles 1 through 9 of Chapter I of this Code or any other
ordinance to the contrary, with respect to those uses, buildings and sites
destroyed or damaged in connection with a declared emergency, and in the area
covered by the declaration of emergency, the following exceptions shall
apply:	A.	Payment of all Planning Department and Zoning Administrator fees may
be deferred until the applicant seeks a certificate of occupancy or a temporary
certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first.	B.	For applications relating
to new conditional uses, other similar quasi-judicial approvals, site plan
review, exceptions from specific plans, project permits pursuant to moratorium
ordinances or interim control ordinances, Sections 12.23, 12.27 and 14.00
actions and any revocation or modification proceedings:	If the law otherwise
requires or authorizes a public hearing, the matter shall be set for public
hearing unless the Zoning Administrator, the Area Planning Commission, the City
Planning Commission, or Director of Planning, makes written findings, attached
to the file involved, that the matter:	1.	will not have a significant effect on
adjoining properties or on the immediate neighborhood; or	2.	is not likely to
evoke public controversy.	Provided, however, that no hearing shall be waived in
any proceeding involving establishments dispensing alcoholic beverages for
consideration, swap meets, gun shops, pawnshops and automobile repair
establishments.	When a matter is set for public hearing, written notice of the
hearing shall be given to the applicant, the owner or owners of the property
involved and to the owners of all property within and outside of the City within
500 feet of the property involved.
