                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ORDERS. (§ 161.702)

  ORDERS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,011, Eff. 1/30/00.)	Whenever the Department determines
by inspection that any existing building or dwelling unit, subject to this
article, or portion thereof, is in violation of this article, the Department
shall order the violation corrected.  If the Department determines that the
building or dwelling unit is substandard pursuant to California Health and
Safety Code Section 17920.3, then the order shall declare the building or
dwelling unit to be substandard pursuant to that section.	The order shall be
provided to the owner on a standard form which in plain language states the
violations found and the sections of this Code with which the property is not in
compliance.  The order shall inform the owner that failure to correct the
violation may result in additional inspection fees pursuant to Division 9 of
this article or rent withholding as provided by Section 161.903.3 for failure to
pay those fees, inclusion in REAP and/or rent reduction as specified in Section
162.04, inclusion in the Urgent Repair Program as specified in Section 50.00C or
any successor program, relocation assistance as specified in Section 161.805(7),
property management training as specified in Section 154.00 of this Code,
inclusion in the Receivership Program, increased frequency of inspections as
provided by 161.602.1, eviction protections as provided by Sections 151.09 and
161.806, prohibited rent increases as provided by Section 161.807, criminal
prosecution or any other enforcement action.  If the order declares the
building or dwelling unit to be substandard, then it shall comply with
California Health and Safety Code Section 17980(d).  (Para. Amended by Ord. No.
173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)	The order shall be served on the owner by first class
mail.  A copy of the order shall be provided to each affected residential unit
in the manner prescribed by Subdivision (a) of California Health and Safety Code
Section 17980.6.
