                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MAPS – LOCAL DRAINAGE DISTRICTS – EXEMPTION FROM FEES. (§ 17.10.5)

  MAPS – LOCAL DRAINAGE DISTRICTS – EXEMPTION FROM FEES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 148,331, Eff. 6/26/76. )	(a)	Payment of fees shall be
required in the sums fixed by ordinance for local drainage districts involved
and as a condition to approval of final subdivision maps, parcel maps and
private street maps, except as provided in Subsection (b) below, whenever the
City Council determined such need pursuant to former Section 11543.5 of the
Business and Professions Code of the State of California or finds and determines
such need pursuant to Section 66483 of the Government Code of the State of
California, effective March 1, 1975 for a local drainage district, and
finds:	(1)	that subdivision and development of property requires or will require
construction of facilities described in the local drainage plan, and	(2)	that
the fees are fairly apportioned within the area on the basis of benefits
conferred on the property proposed for subdivision or on the need for facilities
created by the proposed subdivision and development of other property within
such area.	(b)	In the event the owner filing the map petitions the City Council
for an exemption from payment of fees required by ordinances to be paid to
defray actual or estimated costs of constructing planned drainage facilities for
removal of surface and storm waters from local or neighborhood drainage areas,
and the City Council finds and determines that the final subdivision map, or the
parcel map, or the private street map filed for approval is not filed for
subdivision or development purposes, the City Council may thereupon exempt that
map from payment of said fees or other consideration notwithstanding provisions
of Section 17.05Q, 17.53G, or 18.05J-4 of this chapter or requirements of
Subdivision (a) above or of said ordinance for such payment.	(1)	For purposes of
this subsection the term “subdivision” and the term “development” shall
neither include nor apply to final subdivision maps, parcel maps or private
street maps that are filed within the City:	(a)	in connection with a sale of
land which is to be further divided by the filing of either a subdivision map,
parcel map or private street map prior to development occurring,	(b)	solely for
the purposes of reversion to acreage, or to combine portions of vacated streets
with adjoining lots or parcels, or to make boundary line adjustments without
creating any new lots or parcels, or to effect technical corrections on existing
recorded maps in order to cause those maps to conform to actual fact, clarify
the record, and cause them to read correctly, provided however that approval or
recordation of such new maps does not or will not otherwise change or amend any
existing recorded map or any legend thereon.
