                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PARK AND RECREATION SITE ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT. (§ 17.58)

  PARK AND RECREATION SITE ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 147,650, Eff. 10/11/75.)	A.	No Final Parcel Map shall be
accepted by the City Council or filed with the County Recorder unless in
connection therewith land has been dedicated or a fee has been paid in lieu
thereof, or some combination of dedication and payment has occurred, as may be
determined by the Advisory Agency, in accordance with the standards and in a
manner set forth in Section 17.12 of this Code.	B.	Exemptions. In addition to
the exemptions and credits provided for in Section 17.12 of this Code, no land
shall be required to be dedicated, and no fees shall be required to be paid when
the Advisory Agency determines that any of the following conditions
exist:	1.	The filing of the Parcel Map is merely to adjust lot lines between
existing lots.	2.	The filing of the Parcel Map will result in reducing the
number of existing lots.	3.	The Parcel Map is filed to obtain Private Street
approval to serve an existing legal lot, and will not create additional building
sites.	4.	The Parcel Map is filed to allow conversion of an existing residential
structure, more than 5 years old to condominium use, without increasing the
number of dwelling units.	5.	The Parcel Map is filed for the purpose of vacating
a public easement, unless the City Council in connection with such vacation
proceedings requires the dedication of land or the payment of fees pursuant to
Section 17.12 of this Code.	C.	Further Exemptions. In addition to the exemptions
above, no land shall be required to be dedicated, and no fees shall be required
to be paid as to any portion of a parcel map where the Advisory Agency
determines that:	1.	The property is so zoned that no residential uses are
permitted thereon, or such parcel or parcels are not to be used for residential
purposes. Provided, however, that a condition shall be placed on the approval of
such parcel map that if a building permit is requested for construction of a
residential structure or structures on one or more of the parcels within four
years, the fee provided for in Section 17.12 of this Code shall be required to
be paid by the owner of each such parcel as a condition to the issuance of such
building permit.	2.	Any proposed parcel or parcels are improved with existing
residential structures. In the event, however, that a further increase in
density is permitted by the existing zoning regulations, the owner thereof shall
execute and record in the office of the County Recorder a covenant running with
the land and binding upon all future owners of the property which has been
approved by the Department of City Planning, that said property will not be
increased in density by further residential development unless the required
dedication of land, or the payment of fees has been made pursuant to Section
17.12 of this Code, prior to the issuance of building permits.
