                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PURPOSE. (§ 183.00)

  PURPOSE.

	The Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is among the world’s busiest
airports, hosting millions of travelers every year.  The City of Los Angeles is
responsible for the maintenance and operation of LAX, and as a result of this
support, the businesses in the area adjacent to LAX reap significant economic
benefits.  In particular, the hotels in the LAX area enjoy the highest
occupancy rate of all Los Angeles hotels due to their proximity to the airport.

	Past business practices at Los Angeles hotels have resulted in mass layoffs of
hotel workers.  Historically, when corporate ownership or management of a hotel
changes, the new operator closes the hotel for renovations and reopens with a
new workforce; very few, if any, of the former hotel’s employees are retained,
and hundreds of workers are displaced.  While this practice has become less
common most areas in Los Angeles, it nonetheless occurred at an LAX-area hotel
during the transfer of the LAX Wyndham to Pacifica Host Hotels.  The Wyndham
was reopened as the current LAX Radisson, and virtually none of the Wyndham
workers were retained to continue performing basic services that are common at
every hotel.

	A transitional retention period upon change of ownership, control, or operation
of hotels ensures employment stabilization for a segment of the community.  It
also alleviates the demands for social services provided by the City and other
local governments due to any worker displacement and resulting unemployment. 
Through this ordinance, the City seeks to maintain the welfare and stability of
the LAX-area hotel workforce.  Whereas the LAX-area hotels derive a distinct
benefit from their location near the airport, they have both the ability and
responsibility to support the local workforce by engaging in fair employment
practices.
