                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TRANSITION EMPLOYMENT PERIOD. (§ 183.03)

  TRANSITION EMPLOYMENT PERIOD.	A.	A Successor Hotel Employer shall retain each
Hotel Worker hired pursuant to this chapter for no fewer than 90 days following
the Hotel Worker’s Employment Commencement Date.  During this 90-day
transition employment period, Hotel Workers shall be employed under the terms
and conditions established by the Successor Hotel Employer or as required by
law.  The Successor Hotel Employer shall provide Hotel Workers with a written
offer of employment.  This offer shall remain open for at least ten business
days from the date of the offer.	B.	If, within the period established in Section
183.02 B., the Successor Hotel Employer determines that it requires fewer Hotel
Workers than were required by the Incumbent Hotel Employer, the Successor Hotel
Employer shall retain Hotel Workers by seniority within each job classification
to the extent that comparable job classifications exist.	C.	During the 90-day
transition employment period, the Successor Hotel Employer shall not discharge
without cause a Hotel Worker retained pursuant to this chapter.	D.	At the end of
the 90-day transition employment period, the Successor Hotel Employer shall
perform a written performance evaluation for each Hotel Worker retained pursuant
to this article.  If the Hotel Worker’s performance during the 90-day
transition employment period is satisfactory, the Successor Hotel Employer shall
consider offering the Hotel Worker continued employment under the terms and
conditions established by the Successor Hotel Employer or as required by law. 
The Successor Hotel Employer shall retain a record of the written performance
evaluation for a period of no fewer than three years.
