                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SOLID WASTE TRANSFER / PROCESSING STATION PERMIT. (§ 191.01)

  SOLID WASTE TRANSFER / PROCESSING STATION PERMIT.	A.	No solid waste
transfer/processing station shall be operated without first obtaining a permit
from the Department.  An application shall be filed with the Department giving
such information as is required by the Department and, if approved by the
Department, an annual permit may be issued upon payment of an annual inspection
fee as found in the Solid Waste and Recycled Materials Facility Fee table found
in Sec. 193.02.	B.	Permit Class shall be determined by the Department based on
permitted daily tonnage.  Fees are due within 30 days from the issuance date of
a new permit.	C.	Such permits shall not extend to a later date than the first
day of July next succeeding the date of issuance.  Fees for a new permit issued
after the first day of July will be prorated on a monthly basis.	D.	The
definition of solid waste transfer facilities for establishing fees will be
calculated based on the permitted daily tonnage of the solid waste, as
follows:	1.	Class 1 Transfer Station – A limited volume transfer operation
that receives 60 cubic yards or less of solid waste per day.	2.	Class 2 Transfer
Station – A permitted, medium volume transfer station that is permitted for 60
cubic yards to 100 tons or less of solid waste per day.	3.	Class 3 Transfer
Station – A permitted, large volume transfer station that is permitted for 101
tons to 1,501 tons of solid waste per day.	4.	Class 4 Transfer Station – A
permitted large volume transfer station that is permitted for 1,501 to 2,500
tons of solid waste per day.	5.	Class 5 Transfer Station – A permitted large
volume transfer station that is permitted for 2,501 to 3,500 tons of solid waste
per day.	6.	Class 6 Transfer Station – A permitted large volume transfer
station that is permitted for 3,501 to 4,500 tons of solid waste per
day.	7.	Class 7 Transfer Station – A permitted large volume transfer station
that is permitted for 4,501 to 5,500 tons of solid waste per day.	8.	Class 8
Transfer Station – A permitted large volume transfer station that is permitted
for over 5,501 tons of solid waste per day.
