                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS HANDLING FACILITY PERMIT. (§ 191.02)

  COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS HANDLING FACILITY PERMIT.	A.	No compostable materials
handling operation or facility shall be operated without first obtaining a
permit from the Department.  An application shall be filed with the Department
giving such information as is required by the Department and, if approved by the
Department, an annual permit may be issued upon payment of an annual inspection
fee as found in the Solid Waste and Recycled Materials Facility Fee table found
in Sec. 193.02.2.	B.	The definition of composting facility for establishing fees
will be made in accordance with Title 14, California Code of Regulations,
Division 7, Chapter 3.1, Article 2, Regulatory Tiers for Composting Operations
and Facilities.	C.	All compostable materials handling facilities or operations
shall, at the time of application, submit to the Department all information that
may be required to process its application including, but not limited to, a
Report of Composting Site Information and an Odor Impact Minimization
Plan.	D.	Compostable materials handling facilities or operations shall comply
with the operating standards and siting, design and reporting requirements as
specified in its permit or as set forth in Title 14 of the California Code of
Regulations, Chapter 3.1, Articles 5 to 9.	E.	The definition of compostable
materials operations or facilities for establishing fees will be as referenced
in subsection B, above, and shall be based on the tiered regulatory placement of
the operation or facility, as follows:	1.	Class 1 – Enforcement Agency
Notification	2.	Class 2 – Registration Permit	3.	Class 3 – Full Solid Waste
Facility Permit.
