                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SEPARATE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED FOR EACH LOCATION AND EACH BUSINESS
TAX CLASSIFICATION. (§ 21.06)

  SEPARATE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED FOR EACH LOCATION AND EACH
BUSINESS TAX CLASSIFICATION.	(a)	Unless otherwise provided in this article,
every person who engages in any business within this City which is subject to
tax under the provisions of this article shall be deemed to be engaged in a
separate business at each branch establishment or location at which he engages
in business and must obtain a separate registration certificate and pay a
separate business tax for each classification of business engaged in at each
location or branch establishment in the City at which or from which the business
activities classified and subject to tax under the provisions of this article
are carried on. Each registration certificate so obtained and the payment of the
applicable tax for each such classification of business at each such location
shall authorize the person named upon the certificate to engage only in the
business specified at the location for which the certificate has been issued;
provided that where business is engaged in from one or more locations outside
the City, only one registration certificate for each classification of business
need be issued to the person for engaging in that business in the City from all
such outside locations; provided further, that warehouses and distributing
plants located in the City used in connection with and incidental to a business
for which a registration certificate has been issued to an address located
within the City shall not be deemed to be branch establishments or separate
locations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 131,873, Eff. 3/31/66.)  	(b)	Whenever the
business tax for a business imposed under the provisions of this article is
measured by the number of vehicles, devices, machines, or other pieces of
equipment used, or whenever the business tax is measured by the gross receipts
from the operation of coin-operated machines, the Director of Finance shall
issue only one registration certificate; provided that he shall issue for each
tax period for which the business tax has been paid, one identifying sticker or
symbol for each vehicle, device, machine or other piece of equipment included in
the measure of the tax or for each coin-operated machine used in a business
where the tax is measured by the gross receipts from such coin-operated
machines.
