                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTOMATIC TAX RATE REDUCTION. (§ 21.03.1)

  AUTOMATIC TAX RATE REDUCTION.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord No. 176,324, Eff. 1/16/05, Oper.
1/1/06.)	Commencing with the tax year 2006, the tax rates contained in this
Article which are based upon gross receipts shall be reduced by up to 4% per
year.  The maximum total rate reduction shall be 15% from the rates imposed as
of December 31, 2005.  The yearly tax rate reduction shall be calculated by the
Director of Finance on a percentage basis rounded to the nearest one-tenth
percent (1/10%) from the net increase in business tax revenue above a
baseline.  Net business tax revenue shall be the amount credited as Business
Tax in the Statement of Receipts published in the annual Controller’s
Preliminary Financial Report.  The baseline shall be the revenue forecast for
business tax receipts prepared in conjunction with the 2004-2005 City budget set
forth as follows: 	Fiscal Year		Revenue Forecast 	2004-2005		$384,815,000
	2005-2006		$400,977,000
	2006-2007		$417,016,000
	2007-2008		$433,697,000
	2008-2009		$451,045,000
	2009-2010		$469,087,000The baseline revenue forecast for each year beyond the
2009-2010 shall be calculated based upon a 4% per annum increase from the
previous year.	There shall be no tax reduction in any year in which the net
revenue increase is less than one percent (1%).  Any percentage increase below
one percent (1%) shall be carried over and added to the next year percentage
increase for purposes of calculating the rate reduction for that year.	The
Director of Finance shall issue a detailed annual report on the net business tax
revenue received each fiscal year and the basis for all calculations and
carryovers and shall publish or otherwise publicize the revised rates for each
year.
