                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DUE DATES. (§ 21.04)

  DUE DATES.	All business taxes shall be paid to the Director of Finance in
lawful money of the United States and taxes required hereunder shall be paid in
advance except where otherwise specifically provided, and shall be due and
payable at the following times:	(a)	Annual business taxes on the first day of
January of each year;	(b)	Quarterly business taxes on the first days of January,
April, July and October of each year;	(c)	Monthly business taxes on the first
day of each month;	(d)	Daily business taxes on each day;	(e)	When a business
discontinues, dissolves, or otherwise terminates before the expiration of a
business tax period, any taxes accrued and owing to the City under the
provisions of this article or Article 1.5, including any business taxes that
would not otherwise be payable under the close of the business tax period during
which termination occurs, or until time for paying the tax for the next
succeeding business tax period, shall be due on the date of
termination.	(f)	When a person first becomes subject to business tax by reason
of an amendment of this article, or because of such an amendment, becomes
subject to business tax under a section not previously applicable to such person
or on a basis not previously applicable to such person, any new or additional
tax required to be paid by reason of this article, as so amended shall be due
and payable upon the effective date of the amending ordinance unless an
operative date different from the effective date of the amendment is specified
therein. (Added by Ord. No. 128,639, Eff. 11/30/64.)
