                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SALE FOR CONVENIENCE. (§ 21.168.2)

  SALE FOR CONVENIENCE.	Unless otherwise specifically provided, the phrase
“selling goods, wares or merchandise” shall, whenever used in this article,
in addition to any other meaning established by law, be deemed to extend to and
include in its application the serving or supplying of meals for a fee or
charge; but sales of goods, wares or merchandise by persons engaged in selling
such articles shall not be considered as producing gross receipts to the extent
that such sales are for convenience. A “sale for convenience,” as used in
this section, is a sale of new goods, wares, or merchandise by a person engaged
in selling such articles to another person engaged in selling like or similar
kinds of articles.	(i)	Where the primary purpose of the particular transaction
of sale is to accommodate the purchaser rather than to make a sale in the
ordinary course of business;	(ii)	Where, in the particular kind of business
involved, a similar manner of dealing is frequent or customary in the
circumstances under which the particular sale is made; and	(iii)	Where goods,
wares or merchandise of like or similar kind and of substantially equivalent
value to that which was sold is received in consideration.	The following types
of transactions are sales for convenience within the meaning of this section
when the circumstances stated in Paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) are
present:	(1)	Transactions in which the seller conveys an article which is in
short supply, or which, under the circumstances, cannot be obtained by the
purchaser through normal sources of supply in sufficient time to permit the
purchaser to furnish an equivalent article to a prospective
customer;	(2)	Transactions in which, by reason of the seller’s more convenient
location relative to a designated point of delivery, the purchaser agrees to
reimburse the seller for delivering goods, wares or merchandise at that point to
the purchaser’s customer in accordance with a contract of sale between the
purchaser and his customer;	(3)	Transactions in which, as a matter of business
practice, the form of a sale is arranged and entered into by the seller and the
purchaser as a substitute for or the equivalent of the transportation of the
article or the payment of transportation charges on the article from the point
of the delivery to some other point;	(4)	Transactions different in detail from
those described in the three immediately preceding paragraphs of this section,
but which the Director of Finance has found and by rule determined to be of a
kind whose primary purpose is to accommodate the purchaser rather than to make a
sale in the ordinary course of business; of a kind which, in the particular kind
of business involved, is frequent or customary in the circumstances under which
a particular sale is made; and of a kind where goods, wares or merchandise of
like or similar kind, and of substantially equivalent value to that which was
sold is received as consideration.	No sale shall be considered a sale for
convenience within the meaning of this section unless it is of a kind described
in Paragraphs (1), (2), (3) or (4) of this section.
