                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DELINQUENT TAXES – INSTALLMENT PAYMENT. (§ 21.18)

  DELINQUENT TAXES – INSTALLMENT PAYMENT.	(a)	No registration certificate
shall be issued, nor shall a suspended certificate be reinstated, to any person
who, at the time of applying therefor, is indebted to the City of Los Angeles
for any delinquent business, sales or use taxes, unless such person, with the
consent of the Director of Finance, enters into an agreement with the City of
Los Angeles, through the Director of Finance, to pay such delinquent taxes in
monthly installments, or oftener, extending over a period of not to exceed one
year. (Amended by Ord. No. 160,389, Eff. 10/21/85.)	(b)	Persons indebted to the
City of Los Angeles for delinquent business, sales or use taxes may, with the
consent of the Director of Finance enter into an agreement with the City of Los
Angeles, through the Director of Finance, to pay such delinquent taxes in
monthly installments, or oftener, extending over a period of not to exceed one
year.	(c)	In any agreement so entered into, the person shall acknowledge the
obligation owed to the City and agree that in the event of failure to make
timely payment of any installment, the whole amount unpaid, together with
accrued interest, shall become immediately due and payable; and that in the
event legal action is brought by the City to enforce collection of any amount
included in the agreement, the person will pay all costs of suit incurred by the
City of Los Angeles, including a reasonable attorney’s fee. The execution of
such a contract shall not prevent the accrual of interest on unpaid balances at
the rate provided in Sec. 21.05. No penalties shall accrue on account of
delinquency for taxes owed during the period covered by the contract after the
execution of the contract and the payment of the first installment.
