                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MOTION PICTURE, TELEVISION AND RADIO PRODUCERS. (§ 21.109)

  MOTION PICTURE, TELEVISION AND RADIO PRODUCERS.
	(Title amended by Ord. No. 167,416, Eff. 12/27/91, Oper. 1/1/84.)	(a)	(Amended
by Ord. No. 167,416, Eff. 12/27/91, Oper. 1/1/84.)  For the purposes of this
section a motion picture, television, or radio producer is a person who engages
in the business of producing motion pictures, television programs, radio
programs or advertising material for such media, including pictures or programs
in which animation is used.  Said businesses include, but are not limited to,
the development of a story, whether based on fact or fiction, the photographing
of the story or program, whether by means of photographic film, magnetic tape,
or other device, the recording of the program, and the cutting, scoring,
editing, and final preparation of the picture, program or commercial for release
or viewing, and when performed by a person engaged in the foregoing activities
also includes either or both of the following:	1.	The lending by a motion
picture, television, or radio producer of the services of employees for which
the producer has contracted to one or more other producers; and	2.	The
furnishing of motion picture, television or radio studio facilities to other
such media producers where the facilities include, in addition to physical
equipment, the services of technicians such as cameramen, soundman, carpenters,
electricians and set decorators.	Every person engaged in the business of being a
motion picture, television, or radio producer shall pay a tax in the amount
provided in Subsection (c).  The measure of the tax in each instance shall be
the total of the following sums:  the gross cost of production of motion
pictures, television programs, radio programs and advertising materials; the
gross receipts received by the producer in return for the lending of the
services of employees as described herein; and the gross receipts received by
the producer in return for the furnishing of studio facilities in the manner
described herein.	(b)	Every person engaged in the business of reconstructing
motion pictures, television programs or commercials by synchronizing pictures
with sound, or making or producing sound scores, other than a sound score made
or produced by a motion picture, television or radio producer in the preparation
for release of a production, shall pay a tax measured by the gross cost of the
work done in the amount provided in Subsection (c).  (Amended by Ord. No.
167,416, Eff. 12/27/91, Oper. 1/1/84.)	(c)	The taxes imposed for the privilege
of engaging in the businesses described in this section shall be $145.00 per
year or fractional part thereof for the first  $5,000,000.00 of the measure of
tax, plus $1.30 per year for each additional $1,000.00 of the measure of tax or
fractional part thereof in excess of $5,000,000.00, provided that the maximum
tax shall be $9,245.00 for all measures of tax greater than $12,000,000.00. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,477, Eff. 1/21/11.)	(d)	Any motion picture, television,
or radio producer as defined in Subsection (a) of this section and subject to
the tax imposed by this section, shall not be subject to tax under Section 21.45
of this article for production activity.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff.
1/9/07.)
