                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REGISTRATION OF OPERATORS. (§ 21.15.6)

  REGISTRATION OF OPERATORS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 182,283, Eff. 11/19/12.)	(a)	Prior to commencing business,
or within 15 days after the effective date of this Section, whichever is later,
each operator of any parking facility providing parking space to occupants and
not exempted by Section 21.15.5 shall register each parking facility with the
Director of Finance and obtain a “Parking Occupancy Registration
Certificate” (PORC) which shall be at all times posted in a conspicuous place
on the premises.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the certificate for any
unattended parking facility may be maintained at any other business location of
the operator.  Said certificate shall among other things state the
following:	1.	The name of the operator;	2.	The address of the parking
facility;	3.	The date upon which the certificate was issued; and	4.	“This
Parking Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the person named on
the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of Article 1.15 of Chapter II of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code by registering with the Director of Finance for
the purpose of collecting from parking space occupants the Parking Occupancy Tax
and remitting said tax to the Director of Finance.  This certificate does not
authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful
business in an unlawful manner, nor to operate a parking facility without
strictly complying with all local applicable laws, including but not limited to
those requiring a permit from any board, commission, department or office of
this City.”	The PORC will expire on a date certain set by the Director of
Finance.  The operator must apply for renewal of the PORC before it expires if
the operator intends to continue to engage in business in the City.  Except as
provided below, the Director of Finance may renew a PORC annually without
issuing a new PORC.	The PORC may not be assigned or transferred.  The operator
shall immediately surrender to the Director of Finance the PORC for that
location upon the operator’s cessation of business at that location or upon
the sale or transfer of the business.	The PORC shall not be issued until the
operator has obtained and filed a bond in accordance with subsection (d)
below.	(b)	The holder of the PORC shall remain presumptively liable for the
collection of the Parking Occupancy Tax at the location named in the
certificate, and for the reporting and remittance of such taxes to the Director
of Finance as set forth in Section 21.15.4 unless and until the holder of the
PORC both: (i) notifies the Director of Finance in writing that the holder has
ceased to conduct a parking business at such location and pays all Parking
Occupancy Taxes then due to the City; and (ii) surrenders the PORC for that
location to the Director of Finance.	(c)	The Director of Finance may refuse to
issue, or may revoke, the PORC at any time if the Director of Finance determines
that the operator, or any signatory to the application, or any person holding a
legal or beneficial interest, whether direct or indirect, actual or
constructive, in said operator (“Beneficial Owner”) is not in compliance
with any provision of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, including without
limitation any provision relating to the payment of Business Taxes or Parking
Occupancy Taxes (including the bond requirement as set forth below) for any
other location or business.	Solely for purposes of determining under this
Section whether any such operator, signatory, or Beneficial Owner is not in
compliance with any provision of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, the Director of
Finance may disregard any corporation or association or other entity owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly,  by any such operator, signatory, or
Beneficial Owner and consider such corporation, association, or other entity’s
operations and liabilities as conducted by or as owned by any one or more of
such corporation, association, or other entity’s officers, directors,
partners, members, or owners.  For purposes of this Section, (i) the term
“owned” means ownership of 50 percent (50%) or more of the outstanding
ownership interests in such corporation, association, or other entity; and (ii)
the term “controlled” includes any kind of control, whether direct or
indirect, actual or constructive, whether legally enforceable and however
exercisable or exercised over such corporation, association, or other entity. 
A presumption of control arises if the operator, signatory, or Beneficial Owner
is (or was at any relevant time) an officer, director, partner, or member of
such corporation, association, or entity.	(d)	Bond Requirement.	1.	Effective
January 1, 2013, auto park operators will be required to file a bond with the
Office of Finance, naming the City of Los Angeles as exclusive beneficiary, at
all times the operator engages in such business.  The bond shall be in the
following amounts:
  
    
      
        If the annual gross receipts for the parking facility, or the estimated
annual gross receipts for a new parking facility, are:
      
      
        Then the bond amount shall be:
      
    
    
      
        Less than $50,000
      
      
        $5,000
      
    
    
      
        $50,000 – $100,000
      
      
        $10,000
      
    
    
      
        $100,000.01 – $150,000
      
      
        $15,000
      
    
    
      
        $150,000.01 – $200,000
      
      
        $20,000
      
    
    
      
        $200,000.01 – $250,000
      
      
        $25,000
      
    
    
      
        $250,000.01 – $300,000
      
      
        $30,000
      
    
    
      
        $300,000.01 – $350,000
      
      
        $35,000
      
    
    
      
        $350,000.01 – $400,000
      
      
        $40,000
      
    
    
      
        $400,000.01 – $450,000
      
      
        $45,000
      
    
    
      
        $450,000.01 – $500,000
      
      
        $50,000
      
    
    
      
        $500,000.01 – $600,000
      
      
        $60,000
      
    
    
      
        $600,000.01 – $700,000
      
      
        $70,000
      
    
    
      
        $700,000.01 – $800,000
      
      
        $80,000
      
    
    
      
        $800,000.01 – $900,000
      
      
        $90,000
      
    
    
      
        $900,000.01 – $1,000,000
      
      
        $100,000
      
    
    
      
        $1,000,000.01 – $1,250,000
      
      
        $125,000
      
    
    
      
        $1,250,000.01 – $1,500,000
      
      
        $150,000
      
    
    
      
        $1,500,000.01 – $1,750,000
      
      
        $175,000
      
    
    
      
        $1,750,001.01 – $2,000,000
      
      
        $200,000
      
    
    
      
        $2,000,000.01 – $2,250,000
      
      
        $225,000
      
    
    
      
        $2,250,000.01 – $2,500,000
      
      
        $250,000
      
    
    
      
        $2,500,000.01 – $3,000,000
      
      
        $300,000
      
    
    
      
        $3,000,000.01 – $3,500,000
      
      
        $350,000
      
    
    
      
        $3,500,000.01 – $4,000,000
      
      
        $400,000
      
    
    
      
        $4,000,000.01 – $4,500,000
      
      
        $450,000
      
    
    
      
        $4,500,000.01 – $5,000,000
      
      
        $500,000
      
    
    
      
        $5,000,000.01 – $6,000,000
      
      
        $600,000
      
    
    
      
        Greater than $6,000,000.01
      
      
        $700,000
      
    
  
	2.	A bond, in the applicable amount as prescribed above, must be filed no later
than February 28, 2013, for each parking facility conducted by an operator prior
to January 1, 2013.  For every parking facility commencing business on or after
January 1, 2013, each operator must file the applicable bond no later than the
close of business on the last day of the month following the month in which the
operator commences operation of the parking facility.	3.	The Director of
Finance, or the Director’s designee, may independently establish the annual
gross receipts for a parking facility and set the bond amount pursuant to the
above schedule, based on that determination.  If, at the end of the calendar
year, the gross receipts for a parking facility have increased to at least five
percent above the amount that would be required for the next larger bond under
the above schedule, the operator, as defined herein, shall obtain a new bond in
the increased amount by the following February month-end.  If at the end of any
calendar year the gross receipts for the parking facility have decreased by at
least five percent below the amount that would be required for the next smaller
bond under the above schedule, the operator may apply to the Office of Finance
for a reduction of the bond amount.	4.	This bond requirement does not apply to
an operator that is a governmental entity.  However, this bond requirement is
applicable to a non-governmental applicant operating a parking facility on
behalf of a governmental entity.	5.	This bond requirement is applicable for each
parking facility conducted by the operator, whether in the capacity of owner,
lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, valet or other service supplier or
any other capacity.	6.	The bond shall be executed by the operator as principal,
and by a corporation or association which is licensed by the Insurance
Commissioner of the State of California to transact the business of fidelity and
surety insurance, as surety.  The operator shall keep the bond in full force
and effect for the duration of the PORC and all renewals thereof issued to such
operator.  If the bond provides that the term thereof shall be continuous until
canceled, the operator shall provide the Director of Finance, or the
Director’s designee, with certification from the surety of the renewal or
continuation of the bond at the same time that the applicant files its annual
renewal of its PORC.	7.	The bond shall contain conditions that require the
operator to comply fully with all the provisions of Articles 1 and 1.15 of
Chapter 2 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  The bond shall be payable to the
City of Los Angeles in the amount of all unpaid Parking Occupancy Taxes on
amounts of taxable parking fees collected by the applicant or operator, together
with all administrative collection costs, interest, penalties, and other costs
and charges applicable thereto; provided however, the aggregate liability of the
surety for any and all claims which may arise under such bond shall in no event
exceed the face amount of such bond regardless of the amount due and owing to
the City of Los Angeles.  The City may bring an action upon the bond for
recovery of any unpaid Parking Occupancy Taxes, administrative collection costs,
interest, penalties and other costs and charges at any time prior to the
expiration of the period of limitations applicable to the collection of such
unpaid taxes by the Director of Finance or the Director’s designee.	8.	The
surety may cancel the bond(s) at any time by filing with the Principal, thirty
(30) days written notice of its desire to be relieved of liability with
mandatory copy sent to the Office of Finance.  The surety shall not be
discharged from any liability already accrued under the bond(s), or which shall
accrue before the expiration of the thirty (30) day period.	9.	The operator and
the surety have the express duty to notify the Office of Finance no later than
thirty (30) days prior to the termination of a bond agreement.	10.	When there is
an assessment of Parking Occupancy Taxes against an operator, the Director of
Finance, or the Director’s designee, shall issue the assessment against the
operator, and the operator’s surety.  The liability of the surety shall not
exceed the face value of the bond(s).  The Director of Finance, or the
Director’s designee, shall provide notice of such assessment to the operator
and the surety.  An operator’s request for an administrative hearing shall be
construed by the Director of Finance, or the Director’s designee, as a request
on behalf of both the operator and the surety.  The surety may request an
administrative hearing pursuant to LAMC Section 21.15.10.  The taxpayer and
surety hearing may be consolidated at the discretion of the Director of
Finance.  Upon the exhaustion of the administrative appeals process, the
operator and the surety shall be liable to the City of Los Angeles in the amount
of the determination or decision reached by the Assessment Review Officer or by
the Board of Review.  In the event that the amount of the determination exceeds
the amount of the bond(s), the surety shall be liability for the amount of the
bond(s) and the operator shall remain liable for the full determination.  If
neither the operator nor the surety request an administrative hearing, the
operator and the surety shall be liable to the City of Los Angeles in the amount
of the assessment, provided that the surety’s liability shall not exceed the
face amount of the bond.	The surety shall be subject to the same requirements as
the operator with regard to payment of the tax liability and exhaustion of
administrative remedies prior to seeking judicial relief.  The Director of
Finance may exercise all remedies against the surety that are available to the
Director of Finance as to an operator or any other person determined to be
liable for a tax.	11.	Interest and penalty shall continue to accrue on all
unpaid Parking Occupancy Taxes that are determined to be owed and due at the
exhaustion of the administrative appeals process.	12.	An operator that fails to
qualify for the issuance of a bond by a surety will be required to establish a
deposit account in favor of the City of Los Angeles in the amount of fifty
percent of the prescribed bond amount for each parking facility conducted by the
operator.  The same time periods prescribed for the filing of a bond with the
Office of Finance will be applicable for the establishment of such deposit
account.	13.	Funds placed into an applicant’s or operator’s deposit account
in favor of the City of Los Angeles are subject to collection by the Office of
Finance as partial or full satisfaction for delinquent Parking Occupancy Taxes
as determined at the exhaustion of the administrative appeals process.	14.	An
operator that either fails to renew a bond or has received thirty (30) day
notice from the surety that the bond will be canceled must file a new bond or
evidence of a deposit account with the Office of Finance no later than thirty
(30) days after the bond’s termination.	15.	An operator that fails to submit
the bond filing(s) to the Office of Finance or fails to establish a deposit
account within the prescribed time periods will also be subject to the
revocation or denial of a Police Auto Park Permit.
