                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TAX RATE. (§ 21.14.6)

  TAX RATE.	(a)	The tax imposed on each parcel, improvement to property, and
use of property shall be computed for each parcel by applying a rate to the
gross square footage area of any improvements on the parcel. If there are no
improvements on a parcel, the tax shall be computed by applying the rate
established for improvements to 500 square feet regardless of the size of the
parcel. For 10 fiscal years, commencing with fiscal year 1989-90 and continuing
through fiscal year 1998-99, the City Council, by ordinance, shall impose a rate
applicable to unimproved parcels and, for each parcel upon which there is an
improvement to property, shall impose a rate applicable to the gross square
footage area of such improvements, regardless of the use of the parcel or
improvements. The rate shall be established to provide revenue for each fiscal
year sufficient to make the payments estimated to be required during that fiscal
year for the purposes enumerated in Section 21.14.4(a), and in setting the rate,
the City Council shall take into account possible delinquencies in payments, so
that the amount expected to be collected net of delinquencies will be sufficient
to make the estimated required payments.	(b)	Commencing with the 1989-90 fiscal
year, and for each of the nine succeeding fiscal years, the maximum tax rate for
the area of improvements on a parcel shall be $1.00 per one hundred square feet
of improvement area or fraction thereof.	(c)	The maximum tax rate established in
Subsection (b) of this section shall be adjusted annually, commencing with the
1989-90 fiscal year, to provide for changes in the cost of living and in
population, as those terms are defined in Article XIII B of the California
Constitution, calculated under State Department of Finance procedures applicable
to government spending limitations.	(d)	For any fiscal year the City may, by
ordinance, adjust the tax rate below the maximum amount. Such a reduction shall
not prevent a subsequent levy of taxes for any succeeding fiscal year up to the
limits set forth in this section; however, except as provided in Subsection (c)
of this section, in no case shall the amount of the tax rate to be levied exceed
the maximum amount established by this article without the approval of the
voters by two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon such change in the
tax rate maximum.
