                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ENTERTAINMENT AND MULTIMEDIA BUSINESS TAX LIMITATIONS. (§ 21.27)

  ENTERTAINMENT AND MULTIMEDIA BUSINESS TAX LIMITATIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 170,798, Eff. 1/21/96, Oper. 1/1/96.)	(a)	For every person
engaged in an entertainment or multimedia business, which business is located in
either the Hollywood Redevelopment Area or the North Hollywood Redevelopment
Area, the total tax due under Sections 21.79, 21.109, 21.166, 21.167, 21.189.2,
21.189.4, 21.190 and 21.192 of this article at each such business shall not
exceed $25,000.00 plus 10 percent of the amount of tax in excess of $25,000.00
that would otherwise be due.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,521, Eff. 3/27/97, Oper.
1/1/97.)	(b)	The “Hollywood Redevelopment Area” is the area established by
Ordinance No. 161,202 of the City of Los Angeles, adopted on May 7, 1986.  The
“North Hollywood Redevelopment Area” is the area established by Ordinance
No. 152,030 of the City of Los Angeles, adopted on February 21, 1979.	(c)	For
the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:	1.	An
“Entertainment Business” shall mean a business which has as its primary
purpose the development, production, post-production, distribution, licensing,
or marketing of motion pictures, television programming, video or audio
recordings, video graphic images, and/or animation.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No.
171,521, Eff. 3/27/97, Oper. 1/1/97.)  A “Multimedia Business” shall mean a
business that primarily:	i.	Produces films, disks, tapes, software or other
recording devices, whether visual or audio, through the integration of two or
more media, which media include, without limitation, computer generated graphics
and video, film, slides, video tapes, audio tapes and photographs;	ii.	Provides
computer programming services on a contract or fee basis to the producer of
films, disks, tapes, software or other recording devices, whether visual or
audio, through the integration of two or more media, which media include,
without limitation, computer generated graphics and video, film, slides, video
tapes, audio tapes and photographs, such services to include computer software
design and analysis, modification of custom software, digital imaging and other
related programming services; and	iii.  Develops online and internet services,
including the design of WEB sites, for clients.	(d)	The terms “entertainment
business” and “multimedia business,”  as used in this section, shall not
include any “adult entertainment business,” as defined in Section 12.70 B.
of this Code.	(e)	The provisions of this section shall apply only to businesses
that generate more than 50% of their gross receipts from entertainment and/or
multimedia business activities.	(f)	The provisions of this section shall not
become operative prior to January 1, 1997, except that they shall become
operative upon the commencement of operations for businesses which commence
operations in the Hollywood Redevelopment Area or the North Hollywood
Redevelopment Area on or after January 1, 1996.	(g)	If either the Hollywood
Redevelopment Area or the North Hollywood Redevelopment Area, or both, shall
become dissolved, the provisions of this section shall not apply thereafter to
businesses located within what had been the boundaries of the dissolved area.
