                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 7. (§ 21.47)

  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 7.
	(Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	For every person engaged in the
business of Commission Broker and Independent Telemarketing, Tax Rate D, as set
forth in Section 21.33(d), shall be applicable.	(a)	COMMISSION BROKERS. 
Commission Broker means any person engaged in the business of buying and selling
of goods, wares or merchandise by a person to the extent that the
person:	1.	Does not engage in the business of manufacturing, refining,
fabricating, milling, treating or other processing of the goods, wares or
merchandise bought and sold and, does not cause the goods, wares or merchandise
to be manufactured, refined, fabricated, milled, treated or otherwise
processed;	2.	Does not obtain or retain title to the goods, wares or
merchandise, except while the goods, wares or merchandise may be in transit, or
for short periods of time before transportation commences or after it ceases;
and	3.	Does not store or warehouse the goods, wares or merchandise, except while
the goods, wares or merchandise are actually in transit, or for short periods of
time before transportation commences or after it ceases.	(b)	INDEPENDENT
TELEMARKETING AGENCY.  Independent Telemarketing Agency means any person who
engages in the business of marketing services or goods, wares or merchandise on
behalf of three or more clients continuously, none of which has any ownership
interest in the person, by use of a telecommunications device at a call
center.  An Independent Telemarketing Agency shall not include a person who
sells his or her own services or goods, wares or merchandise.  A call center
means a location in which 25 or more persons are continuously employed or
utilized to make and/or receive telephone calls by means of a centralized
telecommunications system.
