                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT. (§ 21.5.18)

  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.	(a)	The Director of Finance shall administer
and enforce the provisions of this article following procedures prescribed in
Sections 21.00 to 21.49, inclusive, of this Code, insofar as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this article, and, with the approval of the
City Attorney, shall prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations, for the
purpose of administering and enforcing this article, and prescribing methods for
the collection and payment of the tax. Such schedules shall conform as nearly as
practicable to the sales tax reimbursement schedule provided in Subsection (b)
of Section 21.199. Such schedules may be so determined as to facilitate
collection of this tax at the same time as the retailer collects the tax imposed
under the California Sales and Use Tax Law.	Such rules and regulations may,
among other things, require each person affected by this article to keep such
records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers as the Director of
Finance may deem necessary for the purposes of administering and enforcing this
article. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,130, Oper. 10/1/68.)	(b)	Inasmuch as this
article is patterned after the use tax provisions of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of the State of California, and the State Board of Equalization has made
various rules and regulations pertaining to the interpretation, administration
and enforcement of such provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code, it may be
reasonably assumed that the City of Los Angeles will be confronted with many of
the problems dealt with in the state rules and regulations, each such rule and
regulation in so far as applicable, shall apply in the interpretation of this
article until specifically abandoned by rules and regulations adopted by the
Director of Finance pursuant to the authority of this article.
