                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXISTING SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCES SUSPENDED. (§ 21.6.8)

  EXISTING SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCES SUSPENDED.	At the time this ordinance
goes into operation, the provisions of Section 21.199 and Article 1.5 of Chapter
2, Los Angeles Municipal Code, shall be suspended and shall not again be of any
force or effect until and unless for any reason the State Board of Equalization
ceases to perform the functions incident to the administration and operation of
the sales and use tax hereby imposed; provided, however, that if for any reason
it is determined that the City of Los Angeles is without power to adopt this
ordinance, or that the State Board of Equalization is without power to perform
the functions incident to the administration and operation of the taxes imposed
by this ordinance, the provisions of Section 21.199 and Article 1.5 of Chapter
2, Los Angeles Municipal Code, shall not be deemed to have been suspended, but
shall be deemed to have been in full force and effect at the rate of one percent
(1%) continuously from and after April 1, 1956. Upon the ceasing of the State
Board of Equalization to perform the functions incident to the administration
and operation of the taxes imposed by this ordinance, the provisions of Section
21.199 and Article 1.5 of Chapter 2, Los Angeles Municipal Code, shall again be
in full force and effect at the rate of one percent (1%). Nothing in this
ordinance shall be construed as relieving any person of the obligation to pay
the City of Los Angeles any sales or use tax accrued and owing by reason of the
provisions of Section 21.199 and Article 1.5 of Chapter 2. Los Angeles Municipal
Code, in force and effect prior to and including March 31, 1956.
