                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PURPOSE. (§ 21.6.2)

  PURPOSE.	The City Council of the City of Los Angeles hereby declares that
this ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other, purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:	(a)	To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code of the State of California;	(b)	To adopt a sales and use tax
ordinance which incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use
Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.5 of
Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code;	(c)	To adopt a sales and use
tax ordinance which imposes a one per cent (1%) tax and provides a measure
therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes;	(d)	To
adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a manner that
will, to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of Part 1.5 of
Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting city sales and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance;	(e)	(None)
