                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REFUNDS. (§ 21.7.12)

  REFUNDS.	(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City
under this article it may be refunded as provided in this section. Except as
otherwise provided in this section, refunds of overpaid taxes shall be made in
the same manner as is provided in Sec. 21.07 of this chapter for refunds of
overpayments in Business Taxes.	(b)	An operator may claim a refund or take as
credit against taxes collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than
once or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established in
a manner prescribed by the Director of Finance that the person from whom the tax
has been collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a refund
nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has
either been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable
by the transient to the operator.	(c)	A transient may obtain a refund of taxes
overpaid or paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the City by filing a claim in the manner provided in Sec. 21.07 of
this chapter, but only when the tax was paid by the transient directly to the
Director of Finance, or when the transient having paid the tax to the operator,
establishes to the satisfaction of the Director of Finance that the transient
has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the
tax.	(d)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement
thereto.
