                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SIDE SHOWS, CARNIVALS, CONCESSIONS. (§ 21.75)

  SIDE SHOWS, CARNIVALS, CONCESSIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	(a)	For every person engaged in the
business of conducting a side show, or an after show to the circus, where a
separate fee of $0.75 or less, is charged, received or collected, the tax shall
be $44.34 per day; where the fee charged, received or collected amounts to more
than $0.75, but less than $1.50, the tax shall be $88.69 per day; where the fee
charged, received or collected, is $1.50 or more the tax shall be $177.38 per
day.	(b)	For every person operating or conducting any carnival, the tax shall be
$88.69 for each concession for the first day of the carnival and $44.34 for each
concession for each additional day.	(c)	For the purpose of this section, a
“carnival” means any fair, festival or like activity of a temporary nature
having a concession or concessions.  A “concession” is defined to include
any booth or stand or any space, court or area at, or in which, any game or test
of skill, science or amusement is offered and at or in which the public is
permitted or invited to participate for a fee, charge or donation.	(d)	When the
carnival is sponsored solely by a religious, charitable, educational, civic,
veteran or other non-profit benevolent organization, or by a group of these
organizations, the organization or group shall be deemed to be the person
operating or conducting the carnival.  Provided, however, that in the event any
person other than this organization or group receives any proceeds or personal
gain or profit by operating or participating in the operation of any concession
in, at or adjacent to the carnival on behalf of himself or herself or on behalf
of any person other than the sponsoring organization or organizations, that
person shall be deemed to be the person operating or conducting the
carnival.	(e)	In the case of more than one non-sponsoring operator or conductor,
each shall be jointly and severally liable and responsible for making
application for the business tax registration certificate and for payment of the
business tax for the carnival; provided, however, if one non-sponsoring operator
or conductor has also rented, leased or otherwise furnished for use in the
carnival equipment as concession booths or stands, or games or tests of skill,
science or amusement, that person shall be deemed to be the operator or
conductor of the carnival; and if more than one non-sponsoring operator or
conductor has rented, leased or furnished equipment to the carnival, that person
whom the Director of Finance, after full investigation of all the facts,
determines to be the one who has leased, rented or furnished the greater amount
of equipment shall be deemed to be the operator or conductor of the
carnival.	(f)	Where the operator or conductor of the carnival is a religious,
charitable, educational, civic, veteran or other non-profit benevolent
organization, or a group of these organizations, and the net proceeds of the
carnival are to be used exclusively for religious, charitable, benevolent,
educational or civic purposes, the operator or conductor shall be entitled to a
tax exempt registration certificate upon application and qualification for the
certificate as provided in this subsection.	The application for this exemption
shall be made in the manner provided in Section 21.22 of this article not less
than 30 calendar days prior to the starting date of the carnival; provided
however, an application for this exemption, which is not filed within the time
period prescribed here, may be accepted by the Director of Finance upon a
showing that the failure to file a timely application was not a result of an
intentional disregard of the prescribed statutory provisions.  The Board of
Police Commissioners shall investigate as provided in Section 21.22 and shall
forward its report to the Director of Finance at least 16 calendar days prior to
the starting date of the carnival in all cases where the application has been
timely filed; otherwise the report shall be forwarded within 16 calendar days
subsequent to the filing of the application for the exemption.  If the report
certifies that the sponsorship of the carnival and the use to be made of the net
proceeds meet the requirements of this subsection for a tax exempt registration
certificate, and if all other charges, fees and taxes required to be paid to the
Director of Finance by reason of the operation of the carnival or activities
conducted in connection with the carnival have been paid, the Director of
Finance shall issue a tax exempt registration certificate.  Any application not
reported upon by the Board of Police Commissioners within the time limits
prescribed here shall be deemed to be approved and the Director of Finance may
issue the tax exempt certificate in lieu of payment of the tax.	If at any time
the carnival or any part of it is conducted in a manner which, had it been
disclosed in the application for the exempt certificate approved by the Board of
Police Commissioners, would not have entitled the organization or organizations
conducting the carnival to a tax exempt registration certificate, or if the net
proceeds from the carnival are not used for the purposes stated in this
subsection, if any tax exempt registration certificate so issued shall be void
and the full amount of the business tax for the carnival shall be immediately
due and payable to the City, and no other tax exempt registration certificate
for a carnival shall be issued to the sponsoring organization or organizations
until the tax has been paid.	(g)	No business tax registration certificate and no
business tax shall be required for any religious, charitable, educational or
other non-profit benevolent institution to operate or conduct a carnival held
within and upon buildings or grounds owned or occupied by the institution where
none of the rides set forth in Section 21.94 are operated in, at or adjacent to
the carnival and the concessions of the carnival are operated exclusively by and
for the entertainment or benefit of the members of that institution and the net
proceeds derived from the concessions are not used for the purpose of private
gain to any individual but are used wholly for the benefit of the organization
or for charitable or benevolent purposes; provided, that no advertising for the
carnival is placed, exhibited, shown, or otherwise permitted outside the
premises of the buildings or grounds and the non-member public is not invited to
participate in or attend the carnival.	(h)	No tax shall be required for any
person conducting or operating a carnival at any fair, festival or like activity
of a temporary nature conducting or operated by a California Agricultural
District.	(i)	For every person engaged in the business of conducting a circus
procession or circus parade, and not having a registration certificate for
conducting, managing or carrying on a circus within the limits of the City of
Los Angeles, the tax shall be $4,434.00 for each procession or parade.
