                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CIRCUSES. (§ 21.74)

  CIRCUSES.	(a)	“CIRCUS” shall mean an exhibition or entertainment at which
feats of horsemanship, acrobatic feats and trained, or wild animals are
exhibited or displayed in the City of Los Angeles to which exhibition or
entertainment an admission fee is charged, and which exhibition or entertainment
is conducted by a person having no regular established place of business in the
City of Los Angeles for the exhibition thereof.	(b)	(Amended by Ord. No.
166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)  For every person engaged in the
business of conducting a circus or similar exhibition, the tax shall be:	For a
seating capacity of 11,000 or more, $6,652.00 for the first day, and $3,548.00
for each additional day;	For a seating capacity of 8,000 or more, and less than
11,000, $4,434.00 for the first day, and $2,661.00 for each additional day;	For
a seating capacity of 5,000 or more, and less than 8,000, $2,661.00 for the
first day, and $1,552.00 for each additional day;	For a seating capacity of
1,000 or more, and less than 5,000, $1,552.00 for the first day, and $887.00 for
each additional day;	For a seating capacity of less than 1,000 and more than
300, $222.00 for the first day, and $133.00 for each additional day;	For a
seating capacity of 300 or less, $133.00 for the first day, and $89.00 for each
additional day.	(c)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (b), for every
person conducting a circus or similar exhibition where the principal performance
takes place in a permanent structure such as a theatre, arena, stadium,
auditorium, amphitheatre or similar structure, the tax shall be $887.00 per
day.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)
