                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DANCE HALL. (§ 21.83)

  DANCE HALL.	(a)	“DANCE HALL” shall mean any place where the business of
holding or conducting public dances is regularly carried on provided that
nothing in this section contained shall be deemed or construed to require the
holder of a registration certificate to conduct the business of a public dance
hall to procure any additional registration certificate to conduct a dancing
academy, provided that such dancing academy is conducted at the same location
and under the same management as the public dance hall.	(b)	(Amended by Ord. No.
166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)  For every person engaged in the
business of conducting any public dance hall, the tax shall be:	For 1,000 square
feet or less of dance floor area in such dance hall, $133.05 per quarter;	Over
1,000 square feet and not more than 2,000 square feet, $254.90 per quarter;	Over
2,000 square feet and not more than 3,000 square feet, $365.75 per quarter;	Over
3,000 square feet and not more than 4,000 square feet, $465.60 per quarter;	Over
4,000 square feet and not more than 5,000 square feet, $554.30 per quarter;	Over
5,000 square feet and not more than 6,000 square feet, $631.80 per quarter;	Over
6,000 square feet and not more than 7,000 square feet, $698.35 per quarter;	Over
7,000 square feet and not more than 8,000 square feet, $753.85 per quarter;	Over
8,000 square feet and not more than 9,000 square feet, $798.20 per quarter;	Over
9,000 square feet and not more than 10,000 square feet, $831.35 per
quarter;	Over 10,000 square feet and not more than 11, 000 square feet, $853.55
per quarter;	Over 11,000 square feet, $853.55 per quarter, plus $11.00 per
quarter for each additional 1,000 square feet or fractional part thereof.
