                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REFUNDS – TAX, LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES IN EXCESS OF $5,000. (§ 22.12)

  REFUNDS – TAX, LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES IN EXCESS OF $5,000.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173, 587, Eff. 12/7/00.)	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,745,
Eff. 12/3/95.) Whenever any money is excess of $29,457.00, including any tax
administered by the City, license or permit fee, or fee for the renewal or
transfer thereof, is collected or received by this City, it may be refunded as
herein provided, and not otherwise, if a verified claim in writing therefor is
filed with the City Clerk within 12 months after the date of payment. The claim
shall be audited in the manner provided for in the Charter and shall be made on
forms prescribed by the Controller. Such refund may be made only under the
following conditions:	1.	In any of the conditions specified under Subsection (a)
of Section 22.13 of this Code;	2.	Where the money paid was not required by law,
or, was erroneously or illegally collected or received by this City through
mistake, inadvertence or error of law or of fact, and whether paid or charged
under color of any provision of this Code, or otherwise.	(b)	This section is
remedial in purpose; its terms and requirements shall not be deemed to limit or
qualify the lawful right of any person to bring or maintain any action or
proceeding based upon the general law of this state for any remedy provided by
that law. (Added by Ord. No. 79,588, Eff. 5/21/38.)	(c)	The monetary limitations
in Subsection (a) above shall be subject to an adjustment at the beginning of
each fiscal year after 1995-96 based upon the Consumer Price Index for all urban
consumers for the Los Angeles area published by the United States Department of
Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.  The Controller shall calculate the
adjustment in accordance with the methodology used to calculate monetary limits
for intra departmental fund transfers pursuant to Los Angeles City Charter
Section 343(c) and shall notify department heads in writing of the adjusted
monetary limit. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,304, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)
