                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HANDBILLS – DISTRIBUTION. (§ 28.01)

  HANDBILLS – DISTRIBUTION.
	(Amended by Ord. 168,321, Eff. 12/13/92.)	(a)	No person shall distribute or
cause or direct the distribution of any handbill to passengers on any streetcar
or throw, place or attach any handbill to or upon any vehicle.	(b)	For the
purposes of this section, there shall be a presumption that the business,
commercial activity or person whose name appears on any handbill so thrown,
placed or attached, threw, placed or attached such handbill, or caused or
directed that such handbill be thrown, placed or attached to or upon any
vehicle.  Said business, commercial activity or person may rebut the foregoing
presumption by the presentation of competent evidence that it, him or her did
not cause or direct that any handbill be thrown, placed or attached to or upon
any vehicle.  In lieu of the use of this presumption, criminal liability may be
established by direct evidence that the business, commercial activity or person
whose name appears on the handbill caused or directed that such handbill be
thrown, placed or attached to or upon any vehicle.	The freedom of press
guaranteed by the First Amendment of the Federal Constitution, and made
applicable to the states by the Fourteenth Amendment has no application to the
distribution of hand-bills on the streets for purely commercial advertising.
	Valentine v. Chrestensen, 316 U. S. 52, 54; 86 L. Ed. 1262.
	Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S. 413, 417; 87 L. Ed. 869.
	Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105, 108; 87 L. Ed. 1292; 146 A. L. R.	The
rule as regards purely commercial advertising is the same under Article 1,
Section 9 of the California Constitution.
	In re Porterfield, 28 Cal. 2d 91,101; 167 A. L. R. 675.	A City ordinance making
it unlawful to deposit advertising matter in or on motor vehicles parked on
streets does not violate the constitutional guaranties of freedom of speech and
of the press, and does not constitute an arbitrary and unreasonable restraint on
the conduct of a lawful business.
	People v. Uffindell 90 Cal. App. 2d Supp. 881. (ordinance reading “it shall
be unlawful to deposit . . . in or on any motor vehicle parked on any street in
the City of San Diego . . . any . . . advertising matter.”)
