                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SIGNS – GASOLINE SALES – VOLUME. (§ 28.16.1)

  SIGNS – GASOLINE SALES – VOLUME.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 152,387, Eff. 5/17/79.)	(a)	Every person, firm,
partnership, association, trustee, or corporation which owns, operates, manages,
leases or rents a gasoline service station or other facility offering for sale,
selling, or otherwise dispensing gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel to the
public from such a facility abutting or adjacent to a street or highway shall
post, or cause to be posted or displayed, and maintain and shall keep current at
the premises from which said retailer offers sale, sells or otherwise dispenses
gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel, at least one sign, banner or other
advertising medium which is clearly visible from all traffic lanes in each
direction on such street or highway.	Each said sign, banner or other advertising
medium shall be readable from said traffic lanes and shall accurately indicate
thereon the minimum and maximum limits, if any, of gasoline or other motor
vehicle fuel which will be sold thereat to any one purchaser at any one time for
use in a motor vehicle and shall further set forth the hours and days said
service facility will be open to the public for said purposes.	No changes in
such availability of gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel shall be made with
respect to the hours or days the facility will be open as above provided, or as
to maximum or minimum limits or amounts to be sold, without such change or
changes being first shown on such posted sign, banner or advertising
medium.	(b)	Each sign, banner or other advertising medium posted, displayed or
maintained pursuant to requirements of this section shall not be inconsistent
with the provisions of Article 8 of Chapter 7 of Division 8 (Sections 20880, et
seq.) of the State of California Business and Professions Code.
