                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SIGNS – GASOLINE PRICES – POSTING. (§ 28.16)

  SIGNS – GASOLINE PRICES – POSTING.
	(Added by Ord. No. 145,634, Eff. 3/8/74.)	(a)	Every person, firm, partnership,
association, trustee or corporation which owns, operates, manages, leases or
rents a gasoline service station or other facility offered for sale, selling or
otherwise dispensing gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel to the public from
such a facility abutting or adjacent to a street or highway shall post or cause
to be posted or displayed and maintain at said premises at least one sign,
banner or other advertising medium which is clearly visible from all traffic
lanes in each direction on such street or highway.	Each said sign, banner or
advertising medium shall be readable from said traffic lanes and shall indicate
thereon the actual price per gallon, including all taxes, at which each grade of
gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel is currently being offered for sale, sold
or otherwise dispensed, if at all, at said facility on said date.	(b)	No person,
firm, partnership, association, trustee or corporation which owns, operates,
manages, leases or rents a gasoline service station or other facility offered
for sale, selling or otherwise dispensing gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel
to the public shall advertise, either in connection with any signs, banners or
other advertising medium utilized to satisfy the requirements of this section or
otherwise, the price of any grade of gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel which
is not immediately available to be sold or dispensed to the public at said
premises.	(c)	Each sign, banner or other advertising medium posted, displayed or
maintained pursuant to the requirements of this section shall not be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article 8, Chapter 7 of Division 8 (Sections
20880 et seq.) of the State of California Business and Professions Code.
