                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INJURY TO PUBLIC PROPERTY. (§ 41.14)

  INJURY TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.	No person shall cut, break, destroy, remove,
deface, tamper with, mar, injure, disfigure, interfere with, damage, tear,
remove, change or alter any:	(a)	part of any building belonging to this
City;	(b)	drinking fountain situated on any public street or sidewalk or any
appliance used in or about such foundation;	(c)	(1)	electric lamp erected or
suspended on or over any street, sidewalk or park and used in the lighting
thereof, or any wire or other apparatus immediately attached to such
lamp;	(2)	any lamp standard or lamp pole, nor attach thereto any banner,
pennant, streamer, flag, sign, picture, wire, rope or other attachment of any
kind for any purpose without first obtaining a permit to do so, as required by
Sec. 62.132 of this Code;	(d)	parts or appurtenances of the fire alarm,
telegraph system or police signal system, lamp post, street sign post, fire
alarm box, police signal box, post, standard, or pole or any fixture or
apparatus used about or in connection with any such post, box, standard or
pole;	(e)	life buoy, life preserver, life boat, rope, gang or other materials,
property or apparatus owned by this City and used or intended to be used for the
purpose of saving life except when necessary for that purpose;	(f)	public bridge
or any portion thereof;	(g)	water main, pipe, conduit, hydrant, reservoir or
ditch, or to tap the same without permission of the Board of Water and Power
Commissioners;	(h)	water meter or any box containing any pipe, stop-cock or
cut-off valve of the Department of Water and Power of this City or cover the
same with earth, brick, stone, mortar, debris, or building material;	(i)	tree,
shrub, tree stake or guard in any public street, or affix or attach in any
manner any other thing whatsoever, including any guy wire or rope, to any tree,
shrub, tree stake or guard except for the purpose of protecting it or unless
otherwise authorized by this Code;	(j)	property owned by any public utility
located on any street or sidewalk;	(k)	other property owned or leased by this
City, the County of Los Angeles, the State of California or the United States
government or any political subdivision or department thereof, and not
specifically enumerated in this section;	(l)	public document, notice or
advertisement or any private or legal document required to be posted or
exhibited in the manner and place provided by law, or any copy of any ordinance
posted in any public building or place, or on private property when such public
notice or ordinance is required by law to be placed or posted thereon.
