                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SELLING OF TICKETS OF ADMISSION TO PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGE IN PUBLIC PLACES
AND PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC PROHIBITED – EXCEPTIONS. (§ 42.03)

  SELLING OF TICKETS OF ADMISSION TO PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGE IN PUBLIC
PLACES AND PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC PROHIBITED – EXCEPTIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 120,444, Eff. 12/21/61.)	(a)	Except as otherwise provided
in this section, no person in or upon any public street, sidewalk, park or other
public place shall sell or re-sell or offer to sell or re-sell any ticket of
admission to a place of public assemblage	(b)	Except as otherwise provided in
this section, no person in or upon any place which is open to the public shall
sell or re-sell or offer to sell or re-sell any ticket of admission to a place
of public assemblage.	(c)	The provisions of Subsections (a) and (b) of this
section shall not include or apply to the sale of such tickets at or from any
ticket office, booth or other similar place regularly and permanently
established and maintained therefor with the express permission and
authorization of the person or governmental agency in charge, care or control of
the property which such office, booth or place is located.	(d)	For purposes of
this section the following words and phrases are defined as
follows:	(1)	“Place of Public Assemblage” shall mean every place of public
amusement or entertainment, stadium, auditorium, theatre, athletic field,
concert hall or arena which is open to the public upon compliance with
requirements of admission thereto.	(2)	“Place Open to the Public” shall mean
every place of public amusement or entertainment, stadium, auditorium, theatre,
athletic field, concert hall or arena and the property upon which such place is
located or any other property contiguous thereto which is under the same care,
management or control.
