                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT. (§ 45.19.6.9)

  VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,069, Eff. 3/14/10*.)*Note: See Sec. 3 of this ordinance,
as clarified by Sec. 10 of Ord. No. 181,157, regarding the effective date.	Each
and every violation of this article shall constitute a separate violation and
shall be subject to all civil remedies and enforcement measures authorized by
Section 11.00 of this Code.  Additionally, as a nuisance per se, any violation
of this article shall be subject to any other civil relief or remedy available
at law or equity, including but not limited to injunctive relief, revocation of
the collective’s registration, revocation of the certificate of occupancy for
the location, disgorgement and payment to the City of any and all monies
unlawfully obtained, costs of abatement, costs of investigation, and attorney
fees.  Any use that violates this article may be ordered discontinued and
revoked pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.27.1 of this Code, except that
the notice required by Subsection C.1. of Section 12.27.1 shall be provided only
to the owner and lessee of the location of the subject medical marijuana
collective or operation, and shall not also be provided to other property owners
within a 500-foot radius.  The City may also pursue any and all remedies and
actions available and applicable under other local and state laws for any other
violations committed by the collective and persons related or associated with
the collective.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,530, Eff. 1/28/11.)	Notwithstanding
an initial verification of compliance by the collective with the preinspection
requirements set forth in Section 45.19.6.3 A. of this article prior to the
filing of the registration form, any collective later found to be in violation
of any of the preinspection requirements at any time is subject to the
enforcement provisions provided in this section.
