                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES. (§ 45.52)

  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 153,406, Eff. 3/8/80.):	It shall be unlawful for any person
having a housing accommodation for rent or lease, or any authorized agent or
employee of such person, to do or attempt to do any of the following:	A.	Refuse
to rent or lease a housing accommodation, refuse to negotiate for the rental or
lease of a housing accommodation, or otherwise deny to or withhold from, any
person or persons, a housing accommodation on the basis of age, parenthood,
pregnancy, or the potential or actual tenancy of a minor child.	B.	Discriminate
against any person in the terms, conditions, or privileges of the rental or
lease of a housing accommodation, or in the provision of services, facilities,
or benefits, in connection therewith, on the basis of age, parenthood,
pregnancy, or the potential or actual tenancy of a minor child. However, nothing
herein shall preclude any person from imposing restrictions on the use of common
areas, facilities, and services which are reasonably necessary to protect the
health and safety of a minor child.	C.	Represent to any person on the basis of
age, parenthood, pregnancy, or the potential or actual tenancy of a minor child
that a housing accommodation is not available for inspection, rental, or lease
when such housing accommodation is, in fact, available.	D.	Make, print, or
publish; or cause to be made, printed, or published any notice, statement, sign,
advertisement, application, or contract with regard to a housing accommodation
offered by that person that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination with respect to age, parenthood, pregnancy, or the potential or
actual tenancy of a minor child.	E.	Include in any rental agreement or lease for
a housing accommodation, a clause or condition providing that as a condition of
continued tenancy, the tenants shall remain childless or shall not bear children
or otherwise not maintain a household with a person of a certain age.
