                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES. (§ 45.72)

  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.	A mobilehome park operator shall not do or attempt to
do any of the following:	A.	Refuse to rent or lease a mobilehome site, refuse to
negotiate for the rental or lease of a mobilehome site, evict from a mobilehome
site or otherwise deny to or withhold a mobilehome site from any mobilehome
owner on the basis of the age of the mobilehome.	B.	Rent or lease a mobilehome
site on less favorable terms, conditions or privileges, or discriminate in the
provision of services to any mobilehome owner on the basis of the age of the
mobilehome.	C.	Represent to any mobilehome owner that a mobilehome site is not
available for inspection, rental or lease when such mobilehome site is, in fact,
available on the basis of the age of the mobilehome.	D.	Make, print, publish, or
cause to be made, printed, or published any notice, statement, sign
advertisement, application, or contract with regard to a mobilehome site that
indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination with respect to the age
of the mobilehome.	EXCEPTIONS:	(1)	Notwithstanding the above prohibitions, in
the event of the sale of a mobilehome in the park to a third party, and in order
to upgrade the quality of the park, the mobilehome park operator may require the
removal of the mobilehome from the park where:	(a)	The mobilehome is less than
10 feet wide.	(b)	The mobilehome is more than 20 years old, or more than 25
years old if manufactured after September 15, 1971, and is 20 feet wide or more
and the mobilehome does not comply with the health and safety standards provided
in Sections 18550, 18552, and 18605 of the Health and Safety Code, and the
regulations established thereunder.	(c)	The mobilehome is more than 17 years
old, or more than 25 years old if manufactured after September 15,1971, and is
less than 20 feet wide and the mobilehome does not comply with the construction
and safety standards under Sections 18550, 18552 and 18605 of the Health and
Safety Code, and the regulations established thereunder.	(d)	The mobilehome is
in a significantly rundown condition or in disrepair, as determined by the
general condition of the mobilehome and its acceptability to the health and
safety of the occupants and to the public, exclusive of its age. The mobilehome
park operator shall use reasonable discretion in determining the general
condition of the mobilehome and its accessory structures. The mobilehome park
operator shall bear the burden of demonstrating that the mobilehome is in a
significantly rundown condition or in disrepair.	(2)	The mobilehome park
operator may refuse to rent or lease a mobilehome site for a mobilehome entering
the park after the effective date of this section if:	(a)	The mobilehome is less
than 10 feet wide.	(b)	The mobilehome is more than 20 years old, or more than 25
years old if manufactured after September 15, 1971 and is 20 feet wide or more
and the mobilehome does not comply with the health and safety standards provided
in Sections 18550,18552 and 18605 of the Health and Safety Code, and the
regulations established thereunder.	(c)	The mobilehome is more than 17 years
old, or more than 25 years old if manufactured after September 15,1971, and is
less than 20 feet wide and the mobilehome does not comply with the construction
and safety standards under Sections 18550,18552, and 18605 of the Health and
Safety Code, and the regulations established thereunder.	(d)	The mobilehome is
in a significantly rundown condition or is in disrepair, as determined by the
general condition of the mobilehome and its acceptability to the health and
safety of the occupants and to the public, exclusive of its age. The mobilehome
park operator shall use reasonable discretion in determining the general
condition of the mobilehome and its accessory structures. The mobilehome park
operator shall bear the burden of demonstrating that the mobilehome is in a
significantly rundown condition or in disrepair.
