                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ISSUANCE OF PERMIT. (§ 46.93)

  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,436, Eff. 1/28/08.)	(a)	The permit shall state the
following on its face:	(1)	Legal owner,	(2)	Doing Business As (D.B.A.),	(3)	Los
Angeles Municipal Code section regulating Tobacco Retailer’s
Permits,	(4)	Business and mailing addresses,	(5)	Date permit was issued and
permit expiration date,	(6)	Account number.	(b)	Upon the receipt of an
application for a Tobacco Retailer’s Permit and fee payment, the Office of
Finance shall issue a permit, unless the City Attorney demonstrates one of the
following bases for denial:	(1)	The application is incomplete or inaccurate;
or	(2)	The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing at a location
for which a suspension is in effect pursuant to Section 46.98; or	(3)	The
application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing that is unlawful pursuant
to any section of this article or any federal, state or local law.	(c)	City
Attorney’s Responsibilities.  It shall be the responsibility of the City
Attorney or his/her designee to enforce all provisions set forth in this
article, which includes but is not limited to the following:	(1)	Investigate and
prosecute tobacco retailers who fail to obtain and/or maintain a Tobacco
Retailer’s Permit.	(2)	Conduct any and all audits that may be necessary in the
investigation of tobacco retailers.	(d)	Office of Finance Responsibilities.  It
shall be the duty of the Office of Finance to administer and process the Tobacco
Retailer’s Permit application; mail renewal notices to permittees by November
1st of each year; and deposit funds collected for each Tobacco Retailer’s
Permit into the General Fund.
