                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 46.90)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,436, Eff. 1/28/08.)	(a)	“Proprietor” shall mean a
person with ownership or managerial interest in the business.  An ownership
interest shall be deemed to exist when a person has ten percent or greater
interest in the stock, assets, or income of a business.  A managerial interest
shall be deemed to exist when a person can or does, have or share, ultimate
control over the day-to-day operations of the business.	(b)	“Tobacco
paraphernalia” shall mean cigarette papers or wrappers, pipes, holders of
smoking materials of all types, cigarette rolling machines, and any other item
designed for the smoking, preparation, storing, or consumption of tobacco
products.	(c)	“Tobacco product” shall mean any substance containing tobacco
leaf, including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff,
chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco, bidis or beedies, hookah tobacco or any other
preparation of tobacco.	(d)	“Tobacco retailer” shall mean any person or
proprietor who sells, offers for sale, or exchanges or offers to exchange for
any form of consideration, tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia;
“tobacco retailing” shall mean engaging in any of the above.	(e)	“Arm’s
length transaction” shall mean a sale in good faith and for valuable
consideration that reflects the fair market value in the open market between two
informed and willing parties, neither of which is under any compulsion to
participate in the transaction.  A sale between relatives, related companies or
partners, or a sale for which a significant purpose is to avoid the effect of
the violations of this article is not an arm’s length transaction.
