                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VIOLATIONS. (§ 47.106)

  VIOLATIONS.	It shall be a violation of this Article for a Mortgage
Modification Consultant to do any of the following:  	A.	Perform any Service
without a written Contract.	B.	Claim, demand, charge, collect, or receive any
compensation until after the Mortgage Modification Consultant has fully
performed each and every Service the Mortgage Modification Consultant Contracted
to perform or represented that he or she would perform.	C.	Take any wage
assignment, any lien of any type on real or personal property, or other security
to secure the payment of compensation.  That security shall be void and
unenforceable.	D.	Receive any consideration from any third party in connection
with Services rendered to an Owner unless that consideration is fully disclosed
to the Owner at the time the Contract is entered into.	E.	Acquire any interest
in the Residence from an Owner with whom the Mortgage Modification Consultant
has Contracted.  Any interest acquired in violation of this Subsection shall be
void, provided that nothing herein shall affect or defeat the title of a bona
fide purchaser or encumbrancer for value and without notice of a violation of
this Article.  Knowledge that the property was a Residence does not constitute
notice of a violation of this Article.  This Subsection may not be deemed to
abrogate any duty of inquiry that exists as to rights or interests of persons in
possession of a Residence.	F.	Take any power of attorney from an Owner for any
purpose.	G.	Induce or attempt to induce any Owner to enter into a Contract that
does not comply in all respects with Sections 47.104 and 47.105.
