                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FINDINGS. (§ 47.72)

  FINDINGS.	The Los Angeles City Council finds that:	A.	There is a severe
shortage of decent, safe and sanitary rental housing in the City of Los Angeles
and this shortage most severely affects elderly, disabled and low-income
persons.	B.	Many elderly, disabled and low-income persons reside in residential
hotel units.	C.	The Los Angeles Housing Department (LAHD) currently designates
336 hotels as residential hotels, which contain 18,739 units in the City of Los
Angeles.  An additional survey of residential hotels billed for annual fees by
LAHD in 2006, revealed that 87% of residential hotels did not request exemptions
for tourist units.	D.	As a result of the removal of residential hotel units from
the rental housing market, a housing emergency exists within the City of Los
Angeles, acutely impacting elderly, disabled and low-income
persons.	E.	Residential hotel units are endangered housing resources and must be
protected.	F.	The Los Angeles City Council recognized the housing emergency
caused by the loss of residential hotel units and enacted an ordinance that
established a moratorium on the demolition or conversion of residential hotel
units to any other use.  This Interim Control Ordinance became effective on May
24, 2006.	G.	The conversion and demolition of residential hotel units affect
those persons who are least able to cope with displacement in the City of Los
Angeles’ housing market.	H.	It is in the public interest that the conversion
and demolition of residential hotel units be regulated.  Furthermore, in order
to protect the resident tenants and to conserve limited housing resources,
remedies must be provided where unlawful conversion or demolition has occurred.
