                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RECORD-KEEPING RESPONSIBILITIES. (§ 48.05)

  RECORD-KEEPING RESPONSIBILITIES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	A.	Lobbying entities
and major filers shall prepare and retain detailed records (including all books,
papers and other documents) needed to comply with the requirements of this
article.  Treasurers and fundraisers for elective City officeholders and City
candidates, or for any elective City officer’s or City candidate’s
controlled committees shall prepare and retain detailed contribution activity
records for any contributions received as a result of fundraising activity
engaged in by a lobbyist, lobbying firm or lobbyist employer, as defined by this
article.  These records shall be retained for not less than four years.	B.	If a
lobbying entity engages in fundraising activities as defined in Section 48.02 of
this Code at the behest of a candidate or officeholder running for elective City
office, the lobbying entity shall maintain records detailing any contributions
that they know or have reason to know resulted from the fundraising
activities.	C.	If an officeholder or a candidate running for elective City
office contracts with a lobbying entity to engage in fundraising activity as
described in Section 48.02 of this Code, the committee treasurer and fundraiser
shall maintain records detailing any contributions that they know or have reason
to know resulted from the fundraising activities.  The treasurer and fundraiser
shall make the records available to the lobbying entity upon request of the
lobbying entity.	D.	If a lobbying entity delivers or sends written
communications to a certified neighborhood council in an attempt to influence
municipal legislation as described in Section 48.08.8 of this Article, the
lobbying entity shall prepare and maintain detailed records of these written
communications for not less than four years.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,034, Eff.
7/26/04.)
