                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COMMISSIONER PARTICIPATION IN CONTRACTING PROCESS.* (§ 49.5.17)

  COMMISSIONER PARTICIPATION IN CONTRACTING PROCESS.*
	(Added by Ord. No. 176,824, Eff. 8/27/05.)	A.	Except as provided below, no
member of a Board or Commission shall participate in or otherwise be involved in
the development, review, evaluation, negotiation and recommendation process of
bids, proposals or any other submittals or requests for the award of a contract,
contract amendment, or change order involving that Board, Commission, Office or
Department.	B.	This Section does not preclude a Board or Commission, acting as a
body, from reviewing staff recommendations when considering award of a contract,
contract amendment or change order; providing direction to the general manager
on contract requirements and negotiations; or considering proposals or other
requests submitted for the award of a contract, contract amendment or change
order.  Nor does this Section preclude the efforts of individual members in
reviewing documents and other information provided by or available from staff
when preparing for the meetings of the full Board or Commission or committee at
which the matter will be considered.	Additionally, if the Board or Commission so
approves, a committee of at least two members of the body may participate in the
review of staff recommendations regarding the award of a contract, contract
amendment, or change order; consider proposals or other requests submitted for
the award of a contract, contract amendment or change order; and/or conduct
subsequent negotiations on terms or conditions of a contract within the criteria
established by that Commission or Board.  All participation by committees shall
take place only in publicly-noticed meetings pursuant to the Ralph M. Brown Act.
