                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FILING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS. (§ 49.7.17)

  FILING AND RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.	A.	A person required by the Charter or
this Article to file a document or other item with the Ethics Commission shall
do so in a method prescribed and published by the Ethics Commission.	1.	If an
electronic filing is required, the Ethics Commission shall provide a unique
identifier to the person who is required to file, to be used in place of a
physical signature for submitting and verifying data under penalty of perjury. 
An electronic filing shall be presumed to be filed under penalty of perjury by
the filer.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	2.	If a paper filing
is required, it shall contain the physical signature of the person who is
required to file.  It is considered filed on the earlier of the date of receipt
by the Ethics Commission or the date of the postmark if it is mailed and bears
the correct address and postage.	B.	A City campaign, officeholder, legal
defense, recall, ballot measure, primarily formed, or general purpose committee
shall file campaign statements electronically once the committee has received
contributions or made expenditures of $10,000 or more.  This requirement
continues until the committee is no longer required to file campaign statements
with the Ethics Commission.  A person who is not required to file
electronically, may do so voluntarily.	C.	A person required by the Charter or
this Article to file a document or other item with the Ethics Commission, shall
prepare and retain detailed records (including bills, receipts, and other
documents) needed to comply with the filing requirement.  The records shall be
retained for at least four years following the filing deadline.
