                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CHARTER-BASED ADJUSTMENTS. (§ 49.7.3)

  CHARTER-BASED ADJUSTMENTS.	The Ethics Commission has a duty under Charter
Section 702(h) to annually adjust limitations and disclosure thresholds in City
law to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI).	A.	The duty applies to
the following provisions in the City’s campaign finance laws:	1.	The
per-person limits on campaign contributions in Charter Sections 470(c)(3) and
470(c)(4).	2.	The per-person limits on loans in Charter Section
470(c)(8).	3.	The aggregate limits on campaign contributions in Charter Section
470(c)(6).	4.	The aggregate limits on campaign contributions from
non-individuals in Charter Section 470(c)(7).	5.	The per-person limit on cash
contributions in Charter Section 470(d).	6.	The aggregate limit on anonymous
contributions in Charter Section 470(e).	7.	The limits on the expenditure of
personal funds in a campaign in Section 49.7.23 C.4.	8.	The limits on
expenditures by participating candidates in Section 49.7.24.	9.	The independent
expenditure threshold that lifts the expenditure ceilings for participating
candidates in Section 49.7.25.	B.	Pursuant to Charter Sections 240, 470(f), and
702(h), the following apply to CPI adjustments.	1.	The adjustments shall be
automatically calculated and published by the Ethics Commission staff no later
than March 1 of each year.	2.	Adjustments shall reflect the percent change in
CPI for All Urban Consumers that is published by the United States Bureau of
Labor Statistics for the region that includes the Los Angeles metropolitan area
from December 2011 to the December immediately prior to the adjustment using the
following formula:  divide the CPI for the December immediately prior to the
adjustment by 231.567 (the CPI for December 2011); multiply the resulting number
by each value below; and round as specified in paragraph 3.	a.	$700 for the
per-person limits on contributions and loans to City Council
candidates.	b.	$1,300 for the per-person limits on contributions and loans to
Citywide candidates.	c.	($700 times the number of City Council offices on a
ballot) plus ($1,300 times the number of Citywide offices on a ballot), but not
less than (two times the limit on contributions to City Council candidates), for
a person’s aggregate limit on contributions in a single election.	d.	The
following aggregate limits on non-individual contributions:	i.	$202,300 to City
Council candidates.	ii.	$539,400 to City Attorney and Controller
candidates.	iii.	$1,213,800 to Mayoral candidates.	e.	$25 for the per-person
limit on cash contributions.	f.	$200 for the aggregate limit on anonymous
contributions.	g.	The following limits on the expenditure of personal funds by
participating candidates:	i.	$31,100 for City Council candidates.	ii.	$124,500
for Citywide candidates.	h.	The following expenditure limits for participating
candidates in primary elections:	i.	$480,000 for City Council
candidates.	ii.	$1,119,000 for Controller candidates.	iii.	$1,259,000 for City
Attorney candidates.	iv.	$2,798,000 for Mayoral candidates.	i.	The following
expenditure limits for participating candidates in general
elections:	i.	$400,000 for City Council candidates.	ii.	$840,000 for Controller
candidates.	iii.	$979,000 for City Attorney candidates.	iv.	$2,237,000 for
Mayoral candidates.	j.	The following independent expenditure thresholds that
lift the expenditure limits for participating candidates:	i.	$77,000 in City
Council races.	ii.	$155,000 in Controller and City Attorney races.	iii.	$309,000
in Mayoral races.	3.	Adjustments shall be rounded as follows:	a.	To the nearest
$10 for the value in subsection B.2.e.	b.	To the nearest $100 for the values in
subsections B.2.a. through B.2.d. and B.2.f.	c.	To the nearest $1,000 for the
values in subsections B.2.g. through B.2.j.	4.	Adjustments that apply to limits
and thresholds related to elections apply as of the next primary election for
which no City fundraising window has opened.  All other adjustments apply
beginning the July 1 of the same calendar year.	5.	Adjustments may not exceed an
applicable limit or threshold in State law.
