                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.* (§ 49.75)

[.1].  EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.*	a.	Unlawful Educational
Practices.	1.	Admission. It shall be an unlawful educational practice for any
person to deny admission, or to impose different terms or conditions on
admission, on the basis (in whole or in part) of such individual’s sexual
orientation.	2.	Services. It shall be an unlawful educational practice for any
person to deny any individual the full and equal enjoyment of, or to impose
different terms or conditions upon the availability of, any service or program
offered by an educational institution on the basis (in whole or in part) of such
individual’s sexual orientation.	3.	Facilities. It shall be an unlawful
educational practice for any person to deny any individual the full and equal
enjoyment of, or to impose different terms or conditions upon the availability
of, any facility owned or operated by an educational
institution.	4.	Advertising. It shall be an unlawful educational practice for
any person to make, print, publish, advertise or disseminate in any way any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to an educational institution
which indicates that such institution engages in, or will engage in, unlawful
educational practices.	b.	Subterfuge.  It shall be an unlawful discriminatory
practice to do any of the acts mentioned in this section for any reason which
would not have been asserted, wholly or partially, but for the sexual
orientation of any individual.	c.	Exception.  It shall not be an unlawful
discriminatory practice for a religious or denominational institution to limit
admission, or give other preference to applicants of the same religion.* 
Editor’s note:  the previous edition of this code included two sections
numbered 49.75.  For convenience and to allow the two sections to be
distinguished, in this edition of the code this second § 49.75 is designated
“49.75[.1].”
