                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOANS AND CREDIT. (§ 49.7.9)

  LOANS AND CREDIT.	A.	A loan is a contribution from the maker and the
guarantor of the loan and is subject to any applicable contribution limitations
of Charter Section 470 and this Article.	B.	A loan to a candidate or a City
controlled committee shall be by written agreement and shall be filed with the
campaign statement on which the loan is first reported.	C.	The proceeds of a
loan made to a candidate by a commercial lending institution in the regular
course of business on the same terms available to members of the public and
which is secured or guaranteed is not a contribution within the meaning of the
contribution limitations of Charter Section 470 and this Article.	D.	Credit
(other than a loan referred to in Subsection C.) that is extended for a period
of more than 90 days is subject to the contribution limitations of Charter
Section 470 and this Article.  A creditor who demonstrates a commercially
reasonable attempt to collect the debt is not subject to the contribution limits
for that debt.	E.	Following an election, candidates who are elected to the
offices they sought during that election may not repay personal loans to
themselves from their controlled committees for elected City office in excess of
the limitations on personal funds in Section 49.7.23 (C)(4).  (Amended by Ord.
No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	F.	Elected City officers who were participating
candidates may not repay personal loans to themselves from their controlled
committees for elected City office if they exceeded an applicable spending limit
before the limit was lifted.
