                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CITY ATTORNEY BADGE. (§ 52.33)

  CITY ATTORNEY BADGE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,143, Eff. 1/6/95.)	(a)	Uniform   “Uniform City
Attorney Badge” shall mean a badge, to be readily distinguished from the
official police officers badge, of a design selected by the Purchasing Agent and
approved by the City Attorney.	(b)	Issuance Restricted.  No uniform City
Attorney badge shall be issued to or be used, worn or carried by any person,
unless the employee’s duties involve the active enforcement of law, or unless
the employee performs other public duties which, in the judgment of the City
Attorney are such as to require that the employee wear or carry a badge for
purposes of identification.	(c)	Managing Officers – Issuance and Records of
Badges.  Uniform City Attorney badges shall be issued only by the City
Attorney.  Such badges shall be consecutively numbered.  The City Attorney
shall keep records showing the number of each badge, the date of its issuance,
and the name and residence address of the person to whom issued.  Each badge
shall remain the property of the City and must be returned to the City Attorney
at the conclusion of the holder’s service or upon the holder being assigned
duties not requiring the use of the badge.	(d)	Reimbursement Required.  Each
employee to whom a badge is issued must reimburse the City for the cost thereof
if the badge be lost or destroyed through the employee’s negligence, or if the
badge be not turned in to the City Attorney at the termination of
employment.	(e)	Retired Officers and Employees.  When the holder of any badge,
the use of which is authorized under this section, is honorably retired, the
same or another badge may be reissued to the retiree, provided there be
permanently affixed thereto to engraved or embossed thereon, at his expense, the
word “RETIRED” and figures showing the retiree’s term of service.  The
retiree must reimburse the City for the cost of the badge.
