                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ISSUING OF BADGES TO DEPARTMENT – DEPARTMENT MEMBERS AS POLICE OFFICERS. (§
53.02)

  ISSUING OF BADGES TO DEPARTMENT – DEPARTMENT MEMBERS AS POLICE
OFFICERS.	(a)	In the performance of his duties, the General Manager, his 
Executive Officer, and each district supervisor, assistant district supervisor,
license inspector and animal control officer, shall have the power, authority
and immunity of a public officer and employee as set forth in Penal Code Section
836.5 to make arrests without a warrant whenever he has reasonable cause to
believe that the person to be arrested has committed a misdemeanor in his
presence which is a violation of this article, or of any ordinance of the City
of Los Angeles or penal law of this State relating to the care, treatment and
impounding of animals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 140,252, Eff. 4/16/70.	(b)	Badges
– Description of.  Each such person while performing his respective duties
shall wear a metallic badge, of a size and design to be determined as provided
in Sec. 52.32 of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff.
4/10/67.)	(c)	(Added by Ord. No. 140,252, Eff. 4/16/70.)  Animal control
officers when acting in the course and scope of their employment shall be and
are hereby authorized to carry on their persons or in City vehicles loaded
firearms or weapons of a type and caliber approved by the General Manager for
such use.	Each animal control officer shall receive initial and recurrent 
training in the use of any type of firearm or weapon approved for use by the
General Manager, in order to establish and assure satisfactory proficiency in
the use of such weapons commensurate with the safety and welfare of the general
public.
