                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INSPECTIONS. (§ 53.03)

  INSPECTIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 136,242, Eff. 4/19/68.)	(a)	Whenever it is necessary to
make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of or perform any duty
imposed by this Code or other applicable law, or whenever the General Manager or
his authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists
in any building or upon any premises any violation of the provisions of this
article or other applicable law, the General Manager or his authorized
representative is hereby authorized to enter such property at any reasonable
time and to inspect the same and perform any duty imposed upon the General
Manager by this Code or other applicable law; provided that:	(1)	If such
property be occupied, he shall first present proper credentials to the occupant
and request entry explaining his reason therefor; and	(2)	If such property be
unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
persons having charge or control of the property and request entry, explaining
his reasons therefor. If such entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the
owner or other person having charge or control of the property cannot be found
after due diligence, the General Manager or his authorized representative shall
have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure lawful entry and inspect
the property.	(b)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the General Manager or his
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that the keeping or
the maintaining of any animal is so hazardous, unsafe or dangerous as to require
immediate inspection to safeguard the animal or the public health or safety, he
shall have the right immediately to enter and inspect such property, and may use
any reasonable means required to effect such entry and make such inspection,
whether such property be occupied or unoccupied and whether or not permission to
inspect has been obtained. If the property be occupied, he shall first present
proper credentials to the occupant and demand entry, explaining his reasons
therefor and purpose of his inspection.	(c)	No person shall fail or refuse,
after proper demand has been made upon him as provided in Subsection (b), of
this section to permit the General Manager or his authorized representative to
make any inspection provided for by subsection (b) of this section. Any person
violating this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.	(d)	The permittee of
any permit issued pursuant to this article, by accepting such permit, does
thereby consent and agree to the entry upon the premises described in the permit
by the General Manager or his authorized representative for the purpose of
conducting such inspections as are required by this article or other applicable
law.
