                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EQUINE LICENSE FEE. (§ 53.15.1)

  EQUINE LICENSE FEE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 144,751 Eff. 7/1/73.)	(a)	Equine Defined.  As used in
this section, the word “equine” shall mean any horse, pony, donkey, burro,
or mule, twelve months of age or older.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,751, Eff.
7/1/73.)	(b)	License Fee.  Any person owning or having custody of any equine
shall pay for the privilege of keeping such equine a license fee of $14.00 per
year. Each license shall expire one year from the date of its issuance and on
the same day of each year thereafter. The license fee shall be paid annually to
the Department and shall be due and payable on or before the expiration date of
the license.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,728, Eff. 12/8/86.)	(c)	Fee
Modification.  The license fee may be modified by the City Council, by
ordinance, based on recommendations of the Finance and Revenue Committee of the
Council, which shall hold hearings at which equine-related organizations may
attend and present information relative to the determination, of a proper fee. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 161,728, Eff. 12/8/86.)	(d)	Annual Fee Administration. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 165,487, Eff. 3/5/90.)  Receipts of the license fees
collected pursuant to Subsection (b) of this section shall be deposited in the
Equestrian Facilities Trust Fund.	The Department, however, may enter into a
contract that provides for a contractor to collect equine license fees, to remit
all its fee collections to the Department for deposit in the City Treasury, and
to be paid for its services a sum equivalent to a percentage of the collected
fees as agreed to in the contract. In the event of such a contract and upon
receipt of such collected equine license fees, the Department shall  (1) 
cause a portion of such fees equal to the contract amount due the contractor for
its collection services to be deposited into the General Fund,  (2)  cause the
contractor to be paid for its services in said amount, and  (3)  cause the
remaining balance of the collected fees received by the Department to be
deposited into the Equestrian Facilities Trust Fund.	(e)	Identification Tags. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 151,852, Eff. 2/19/79, Oper. 3/1/79.)	1.	The Department
shall keep a record of the name and address of the person to whom each
identification tag is issued, the number of such tag, and date of issuance
thereof and a description of the equine for which issued.	2.	Each equine
identification tag shall consist of a metal tag with the number affixed together
with the words “L.A. City.”	3.	No unauthorized person shall remove from any
equine any identification tag issued by the Department of Animal Services.	4.	No
person shall attach to or keep upon any equine, or make or have in his
possession any counterfeit or imitation of any tag provided for in this article
except that the Department may, upon statement of loss and receipt of $1.00
issue a replacement equine license number and tag. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,035,
Eff. 10/4/82, Oper. 11/1/82.)	(f)	Exceptions:  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,751,
Eff. 7/1/73.)	1.	This fee shall not apply to persons who bring equines into the
City for a period of less than 30 days.	2.	This fee shall not apply to any
equine maintained in any boarding stable, riding academy, livery stable, pony
ring, pony ride, horse market or mule market under permit from the Department so
long as such equine is the property of the permit holder.	(g)	Penalty.  In the
event any license fee required by this section is not paid within 30 days after
the date of expiration of any previously issued license, or within 30 days after
the date of mailing of notice to secure a license to the owner or custodian of
any previously unlicensed equine, a late payment collection fee of $5.00 shall
be charged in addition to such other fee.  (Added by Ord. No. 161,728, Eff.
12/8/86.)
