                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DOG KENNELS, ETC. (§ 53.50)

  DOG KENNELS, ETC.	(a)	Permit Required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,171, Eff.
1/20/95.)  No person, without first obtaining a permit therefor in writing from
the Department, shall keep, conduct or operate within the City of Los Angeles
any dog kennel, cat kennel, pet shop, zoo, animal rental establishment, animal
grooming parlor, riding academy, livery stable, boarding stable, pony ring or
pony ride, horse market, mule market, circus, rodeo, pet show, cat show, animal
acts or exhibitions, alligator farm, ostrich farm, wild animals, miscellaneous
animal or reptile establishment, or carrier and homing pigeons which are to be
liberated for exercise or racing.	(b)	Application – Contents of.  Each
application for permit hereunder shall be in writing upon a form to be furnished
by the Department, and shall contain such information as the General Manager, by
rule or regulation shall require.  (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff.
4/10/67.)	All permits issued by the Department as required by this article shall
expire one year from the date of issuance, unless sooner revoked or suspended,
or unless the holder of such permit changes the location of his place of
business, or sells, assigns, transfers or otherwise disposes of such business or
his interest therein for a period of 30 days. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,576, Eff.
3/26/78, Oper. 7/1/78.)	Upon the expiration of any permit and within thirty days
thereafter, the permittee shall apply for and secure a renewal of the permit in
the manner provided for in this article upon paying the proper fees. Upon
failure to make application for renewal of such permit within the time herein
provided, the applicant shall pay, in addition to the regular permit fee, a
penalty of 15% of any such renewal fee. (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff.
4/10/67.)	All permits issued hereunder shall be kept posted in a conspicuous
place. (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)	(c)	Investigation.  Upon
the filing of each application hereunder, either for an original permit or a
renewal thereof, the Department shall make such investigation as it deems
proper. It shall then issue a permit to the applicant if it finds that: (Amended
by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)	1.	The keeping of animals, or the conduct or
operation of the business for which the permit is requested, and at the place
set forth in the application, will not violate any law or ordinance of this
City, or any law of the State of California; and	2.	The keeping of animals, or
the conduct or operation of the business for which the permit is requested will
not constitute a menace to the health, peace or safety of the community;
and	3.	The premises and establishment where animals are to be kept is maintained
in a clean and sanitary condition, and that animals will not be subject to
needless suffering, unnecessary cruelty or abuse; and	4.	The applicant has not
had a permit revoked within one year prior to the application.	(d)	Revocation or
Suspension – Grounds – Procedure.  Any permit issued hereunder may be
revoked or suspended under the procedure outlined in Sec. 22.02 of this Code,
if, after due investigation, the Department finds:  (Amended by Ord. No.
133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)	1.	That the permittee, his agent, or employee, has been
convicted of any offense involving the violation of Section 597 of the Penal
Code of the State of California, or any provision of this article; or	2.	That
the permittee, his agent, or employee, has, at the place for which the permit
was issued, failed to provide any animal, fowl or reptile in his possession,
care or control, with proper and sufficient food, drink, shelter, or protection,
or subjected any such animal, fowl or reptile to needless suffering, unnecessary
cruelty, or abuse; or	3.	That the permittee, his agent, or employee, has failed
to maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary condition; or	4.	That the
permittee, his agent, or employee, has violated any rule or regulation of the
Department. (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff. 4/10/67.)	(e)	Rules and
Regulations.  The General Manager is hereby authorized and empowered to adopt
such rules and regulations as he deems reasonably necessary to carry out the
purpose of this article, and to insure the maintenance of approved and humane
conditions at any place for which a permit is granted hereunder. A copy of such
rules and regulations shall be furnished to each applicant for a permit upon the
filing of his application.  (Amended by Ord. No. 133,983, Eff.
4/10/67.)	(f)	Permit Fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,341, Eff. 11/14/10.)  The
Department, before receiving any application for granting of any permit required
by this Section, shall require the payment of an annual permit fee of the type
and in the amount set forth in this Section as follows, or as revised in the
manner set forth in Subsection (a) of Section 53.12:1.  Dog Kennel	$305.002. 
Cat Kennel	$290.003.  Pet Shop	$290.004.  Zoo	$185.005.  Animal Rental
Establishment	$265.006.  Pet Show, Dog Show, Animal Acts or
Exhibitions	$425.007.  Alligator Farms, Ostrich Farms and Wild
Animals	$290.008.  Miscellaneous Animals or Reptile Establishment	$205.009. 
Circus	$4,000.0010.  Rodeo	$1,660.0011.  Homing Pigeons	$290.0012.  Riding
Academy, Livery Stable, Board Stable, Pony Ride, Horse Market or Mule
Market	$325.0013.  Animal Grooming Parlor	$160.0014.  Filming with
Animals	$300.00	The fees imposed herein for a pet show or a dog show shall be
waived in the event that such show is held in a public park.
