                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LIABILITY FOR UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL OR RELEASE. (§ 54.02)

  LIABILITY FOR UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL OR RELEASE.	If the City takes any
corrective action which, in the judgment of an Environmental Manager, is
reasonably necessary to remedy or prevent an imminent substantial danger to the
public health, domestic livestock, wildlife or the environment arising out of
any unauthorized disposal or release of any hazardous substance, the following
described persons shall be jointly and severally liable to the City for the cost
incurred by it in taking any such corrective action:	A.	The owner or operator of
a vessel or a facility,	B.	Any person who at the time of disposal of any
hazardous substance owned or operated any facility at which such hazardous
substances were disposed of,	C.	Any person who by contract, agreement, or
otherwise arranged for disposal or treatment, or arranged with a transporter for
disposal or treatment, of hazardous substances owned or possessed by such
person, by any other party or entity, at any facility or incineration vessel
owned or operated by another party or entity and containing such hazardous
substances, and	D.	Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous substances
for transport to disposal or treatment facilities, incineration vessels or sites
selected by such person, from which there is a release, or a threatened release
which causes the incurrence of response costs, of a hazardous substance.	For the
purposes of this article, the defenses available to liable persons shall be
those defenses specified in Sections 101(35) and 107(b) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (42
U.S.C. §§ 9601(35) and 9607(b)).
