                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POSSESSION OF GUN PARTS IN AIRPORTS. (§ 55.17)

  POSSESSION OF GUN PARTS IN AIRPORTS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 174,656, Eff. 8/3/02.)	(a)	It is unlawful for any person to
knowingly possess within any airport or airport operations area, as defined in
California Penal Code Sections 602(t)(3)(A) and (C), either in an area to which
access is controlled by the inspection of persons and property or in an area in
which these inspections are conducted, any of the following items:	(1)	any
frame, receiver or barrel of a firearm; 	(2)	any ammunition as defined in
California Penal Code Section 12316.	(b)	This provision shall not apply to, or
affect, any of the following:	(1)	a duly appointed peace officer, as defined in
California Penal Code Chapter 4.5 (commencing with California Penal Code Section
830) of Title 3 of Part 2, a retired peace officer with authorization to carry
concealed weapons as described in California Penal Code Section 12027(a), a
full-time paid peace officer of another state or the federal government who is
carrying out official duties while in California, or any person summoned by any
of these officers to assist in making arrests or preserving the peace while he
or she is actually engaged in assisting the officer.	(2) 	authorization to
possess any frame, receiver or barrel of a firearm or any ammunition granted, in
writing, by the city official designated by title 49 Code of Federal Regulations
Section 1542.3 as the person in charge of security of the airport.	(c)	A
violation of this section shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail for
a period not exceeding six months, or by a fine not exceeding $1,000, or by both
that fine and imprisonment.
