                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES. (§ 57.05.31)

  FEES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 163,071, Eff. 1/30/88.)	A.	Before accepting an application
for any Permit required by this division, the Department shall collect the fees
required therefor established by the most current cost recovery schedule
published as provided by Section 57.04.12 C and applicable thereto. Upon payment
of said fees the Department shall cause them to be deposited with the City
Treasurer.	established by the procedure set forth in Section 57.04.12-C of this
article shall apply to Permits for the following:	1.	Atmospheric tank or low
pressure tank:	(a)	Shop built tank.	(b)	Field erected tank not more than 3,000
barrels.	(c)	Field erected tank, more than 3,000 barrels.	No fee shall be
charged for the issuance of a permit for the installation, closure, addition to
or alteration of an atmospheric underground tank or tank system.	2.	Pressure
Vessel:	a.	Shop built vessel.	b.	Field erected vessel.	3.	Special
Vessel:	a.	Shop built vessel.	b.	Field erected vessel.	4.	Gas Holder:	a.	Shop
built gas holder.	b.	Field erected gas holder.	5.	Spray Booth or Spray
Tunnel.	6.	Dip Tank:	a.	Not more than 500 gallons capacity.	b.	More than 500
gallons capacity.	7.	Flow Coat Machine.	8.	Drying Oven.	9.	Industrial Oven or
Furnace not otherwise specified.	10.	Industrial Proceeding Equipment not
otherwise specified.	11.	Fumigation Chamber.	12.	Automatic Fire Extinguishing
System other than automatic sprinkler system.	13.	Compressed or Liquefied –
Gas Manifold:	14.	Install, alter or relocate Fire Hydrants on private
property:	a.	For the first hydrant.	b.	For each additional hydrant.	15.	Central
Station Signaling System.	16.	Dust Collecting System.	17.	Dry Cleaning Equipment
not otherwise specified.	18.	Drill oil well or redrill oil well.	19.	Asbestos
Abatement.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,176, Eff. 8/20/92.)	20.	Gas Detection
Systems.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,905, Eff. 6/27/08.)	B.	(Amended by Ord. No.
170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)  When the length of time spent in plan checking with
regard to a particular permit is such that the charge for hours spent, as
computed in accordance with the cost recovery schedule established under
57.04.12-C, Item 31, exceeds the schedule fee for issuing a permit for that
category of activity, the charge as computed pursuant to Section 57.04.12-C,
Item 31, shall be paid to the Department before any permit is issued.	C.	Every
application for a Permit required by Subsection B of Section 57.05.20 of this
article adding to or altering any item set forth in Subsection A of Section
57.05.20 of this article shall be accompanied by a fee established by the
procedure set forth in Section 57.04.1. of this article.	D.	Every application
for a permit required by Subsections C, D, H or I of Section 57.05.20 of this
article shall be accompanied a fee or fees established by the procedure set
forth in Section 57.04.12-c of this article for any of the following:	1.	Conduct
any fireworks display:	a.	Ground displays only; fee per day or portion
thereof	b.	Aerial burst with mortars not over six inches in diameter; fee per
day or portion thereof.	c.	Aerial burst with mortars over six inches in
diameter; per day or portion thereof.	2.	Conduct any blasting operation; fee per
four-hour period or portion thereof.	3.	Conduct any exhibit, show, circus, or
carnival; fee per day or portion thereof.	4.	Use any tent or membrane structure
as a place of assemblage,	a.	450 to 3,500 square feet.	b.	3,500 to 25,000 square
feet.	c.	Over 25,000 square feet.	5.	Drill not more than six temporary
geological exploratory core holes located within the perimeter of a circle
having a radius of 1,000 yards or less:	a.	Not over 1,500 feet in depth nor over
five inches in diameter; fee for each permit plus fee for each four-hour period
or fraction thereof;	Such permit to be in effect for the duration of drilling
operations and until core holes are abandoned in a manner approved by the
Chief.	b.	Over 1,500 feet in depth or greater than five inches in diameter; fee
for each 30 days of drilling operations, which shall include time for abandoning
core hole in a manner approved by the Chief.	6.	Land any aircraft, including
helicopters any place other than an approved airport or heliport.	7.	Transfer
flammable gas, liquefied flammable gas, flammable liquids or combustible liquids
in a manner not otherwise regulated by this article.	8.	Abandon any oil
well.	9.	Abandon any underground tank:	a.	For the first tank.	b.	For each
additional tank.	10.	Burn any hazardous refuse in an open outdoor
fire.	11.	Temporarily store explosives in a manner not otherwise specifically
revealed by this article.	12.	Operate or maintain a live theatrical production,
other than a live production in a theater with a seating capacity of 99 persons
or less.	E.	Whenever any blasting operation is to be conducted in conjunction
with the drilling of a temporary geological exploratory core hole, the Permits
shall be combined into a single Permit. The fee for any such combined Permit
shall be either that specified in Subdivisions 2 or 5 of Subsection D of this
section, whichever is greater.	F.	When two or more items of the same
classification are installed on the same premises by authority of the same
Permit, the inspection fee required by this section shall be computed on the
basis of 100 percent of the fee required for the first item, plus 50 percent of
the fee for each additional item. The inspection fee for such multiple
installations shall be equal to the greatest fee required by this section for a
single installation of any item thereon.
