                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BONDS AND IN LIEU DEPOSITS FOR OIL WELLS. (§ 57.04.14)

  BONDS AND IN LIEU DEPOSITS FOR OIL WELLS.	A.	Each application for a Permit
for the drilling, operation, maintenance of any oil well shall be accompanied by
a bond or bonds in duplicate and executed by the applicant as principal and by a
surety company authorized to do business in this State as surety, or by the
applicant with two responsible sureties satisfactory to the City Attorney. All
such bonds shall be approved by the City Attorney as form and content.	B.	Unless
otherwise provided, a bond in the sum of $10,000 shall be filed with the Office
of Finance (Amended by Ord. No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) for each
oil well for which a Permit is required; provided however, that the applicant,
in lieu of filing individual bonds for each such well, may file a blanket bond
in the sum of $50,000 covering all oil wells for which a Permit is
required:	1.	Where the $50,000 blanket bond is filed, each additional oil well
not described in said bond shall be covered hereunder by a rider, submitted in
duplicate and attached thereto, specifically describing such additional property
as the bond is to cover, said rider to be executed by the principal and surety
in the same manner as the bond is executed and shall be approved by the City
Attorney as to form a content;	2.	The total aggregate liability under the
blanket bond shall be limited to the sum of $50,000, provided however, that the
maximum liability for any one oil well shall not exceed the sum of
$10,000.	C.	The conditions of the bond shall specify that the principal shall
comply with all of the provisions and requirements of this article and any and
all amendments thereto, and that in default thereof the principals shall upon
demand pay to the City of Los Angeles all charges, costs, and expenses incurred
by the City in respect to any abandonment or demolition of any oil well, in the
event of a failure on the part of the principal to abandon or demolish any oil
well as required by this article, and shall upon demand pay to the City all
charges, costs, an expenses incurred by the City in respect to altering,
reconstruction or repairing any oil well so as to cause the same to comply with
the provisions of this article in the event of the failure on the part of the
principal to comply with such provisions.	D.	The term of each such bond shall
begin upon the date thereof an shall terminate upon the filing of a new bond as
required by the permittee covering the same oil well, or upon the abandonment of
such, oil well in the manner required by this article.	E.	In lieu of a surety
bond as herein prescribed, the City Attorney may accept an agreement of
indemnity executed by the applicant or permittee and accompanied by a deposit of
cash in substantially the following form and manner:	1.	The applicant or
permittee shall deposit; and at all times maintain on deposit with the Treasurer
of the City of Los Angeles, an amount in cash equivalent to the amount of the
bond required by the provisions of this article;	2.	The applicant or permittee,
concurrently with the making of said deposit, shall execute and deliver to the
Office of Finance (Amended by Ord. No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) an
agreement in writing, which shall be subject to the approval of the City
Attorney as to form and content, confirming the deposit and agreeing to
indemnify the City against any loss and damage arising out of the failure on the
part of the applicant or permittee faithfully to comply with the provisions of
this article;	3.	The City Treasurer shall have the custody of the cash deposited
hereunder;	4.	The Chief shall determine the fact of a default by the applicant
or permittee in the performance of all of the terms and conditions of this
article and the amount of all charges, costs, and expenses incurred by the City,
thereby provided for herein and shall order the payment thereof from the
deposit. The Chief shall transmit his findings and order to the Treasurer who
shall make payment to the City for all charges, costs, and expenses
incurred.	5.	The agreement of indemnity herein provided for may set forth such
additional terms and conditions as the City Attorney finds necessary or
convenient to carry out the purposes and intent of the L.A.M.C.	F.	Whenever the
Chief extends the time in which the permittee may perform any acts required by
this article, such extension of time shall not be deemed to exonerate or
discharge any surety upon any bond filed hereunder.	G.	The Chief shall have the
power to authorize all necessary acts to be done to make any such oil well
comply with the provisions of this article relating thereto or to perform the
necessary acts to abandon and demolish any such oil well and to restore the
property to its natural condition. The City Controller shall approve all
warrants held by the City Treasurer for the necessary expense incurred in
correcting the violation of this article relating thereto and the abandoning and
demolition of any such oil well.
