                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS REQUIRED. (§ 57.04.03)

  PERMITS REQUIRED.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	No person or owner shall use any
premises or engage in any activities described herein without having obtained a
Permit pursuant to this section.  Occupancies listed in this section shall not
be required to have an additional Permit for hazardous materials when the Chief
determines that such materials are essential to the operation of the business. 
A Permit shall be required to operate or maintain the following:	1.	Aircraft
Fueling Station	2.	Aircraft Refueller	3.	Airport Fueling System	4.	Airport,
Private	5.	Assembly Occupancy (Place of Assemblage)	6.	Atmospheric Aboveground
Tank exceeding 60 gallons capacity containing  hazardous material or hazardous
waste.	7.	Bulk Distributing Station	8.	Central Station Signaling
System	9.	Church:  Original fee only	10.	Community Care Facility (Serving more
than 6 persons)	11.	Cylinder Filling Plant	12.	Day Care:  Non-residential
buildings for more than six children.  Any  residential building for more than
12 children.	13.	Dry Cleaning Plant	14.	Hazardous Materials:  To store,
process, or use materials above ground of the type and  in the amounts
exceeding those set forth in Table 4-A of this division or exceeding the Permit
amounts for hazardous materials in L.A.F.D. Standard No.
68.	15.	Heliport	EXCEPTION:	Heliports used only as emergency helicopter landing
facilities on high-rise buildings, as required by the
Department.	16.	Hospital	17.	Hotel	18.	Laboratory using hazardous materials: 
Only one Laboratory Permit shall be required for all buildings or structures
operated by same permittee at the same location.	19.	Marine Oil
Terminal	20.	Marine Service Station	21.	Natural Gasoline Plant	22.	Oil
Well	23.	Refinery	24.	Residential Occupancies defined as: R2.1, R2.2, R6.1, or
R6.2  occupancies.	25.	School	26.	Service Center For Armed Forces Personnel: 
(Original fee only)	27.	Special School	28.	Surgical
Center	29.	Theater	30.	Theater, Little	31.	Theater, Motion PictureTABLE 4-A
AMOUNTS OF MATERIALS EXEMPT FROM
