                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS – REQUIRED. (§ 57.05.20)

  PERMITS – REQUIRED.	No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in any
specific action or project for which a Permit is required by this section
without first having obtained a valid Permit from the Department. Permits shall
be required for the following:	A.	Erect, install or relocate any appliance,
device, or system listed in this subsection when such equipment is to be used in
connection with hazardous materials, hazardous waste, or hazardous
plastics.	1.	Atmospheric tank exceeding 60 gallons capacity.	2.	Low pressure
tank exceeding 60 gallons water capacity.	3.	Pressure vessel exceeding 60
gallons water capacity.	4.	Special vessel.	5.	Gas holder exceeding 3,000
standard cubic feet.	6.	Spray booth or spray tunnel with any dimension greater
than three feet.	7.	Dip tank more than 150 gallons capacity or more than five
square feet of surface area.
	8.	Flow coat machine.	9.	Drying oven.	10.	Industrial oven or furnace, not
otherwise specified.	11.	Industrial proceeding equipment, not otherwise
specified.	12.	Fumigation chamber	13.	Automatic fire extinguishing system except
automatic sprinkler system.	14.	Compressed or liquefied gas manifold
(stationary).	15.	Dual collecting systems.	16.	Dry cleaning equipment, not
otherwise specified.	17.	Drill or redrill any oil well.	18.	Asbestos
Abatement.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,176, Eff. 9/20/92.)	19.	Gas Detection
Systems.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,905, Eff. 6/27/08.)	B.	Add to or alter any
item, including ducting or piping connected thereto, as set forth in Subsection
A of this section.	C.	Conduct any of the following operations.	1.	Fireworks
display.	2.	Blasting operation.	3.	Exhibit, show, circus, or carnival on any
parcel of land or premises other than those for which a Permit is required by
Section 57.04.03 of this article. When such exhibit, show, circus, or carnival
is conducted within a tent, the fees required by Section 57.05.31 of this
article shall be deemed to include the use of such tent as a place of
assemblage.	4.	Transfer flammable gas, liquefied flammable gas, flammable
liquids or combustible liquids as provided for in exception to Subsection A of
Section 57.38.08 of this article, or in any other manner not specifically
regulated by this article.	5.	Abandon oil well or underground tank.	6.	Burn any
hazardous refuse in an open outdoor fire.	7.	Temporarily store explosives in a
manner not otherwise specifically regulated by this article.	D.	Use any tent or
membrane structure (temporary only) as a place of assemblage.	E.	Drill not more
than six temporary geological exploratory core holes within any project area
located within the perimeter of a circle having a radius of 1,000 yards or
less.	F.	Install, alter or relocate any part of any fire hydrant on private
property.	G.	Install any central station signaling system.	H.	Land any aircraft
including helicopters, except in an emergency, any place other than an airport
or heliport which is regulated under the provisions of Division 101 of this
article.	I.	Operate or maintain a live theater production.
