                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SUPPLEMENTAL FIRE PROTECTION. (§ 57.09.08)

  SUPPLEMENTAL FIRE PROTECTION.
	(Former Sec. 57.09.07 Renumbered by Ord. No. 169,944, Eff. 8/20/94.)	A.	Where
the Chief determines that any or all of the supplemental fire protection
equipment or systems described in this section may be substituted in lieu of the
requirements of this division with respect to any facility, structure, group of
structures or premises, the person owning or having control thereof shall either
conform to the requirements of this division or shall install such supplemental
equipment or systems. Where the Chief determines that any or all of such
equipment or systems is necessary in addition to the requirements of this
division as to any facility, structure, group of structures or premises, the
owner thereof shall install such required equipment or systems.	B.	Supplemental
fire protection equipment or systems shall consist of:	1.	Fire protective
signaling systems which shall be installed in accordance with Division 122 of
this article.	2.	Fire hydrants which shall be installed in accordance with
section 57.09.06 of this division, or as required by the Chief.	3.	Automatic
fire extinguishing systems which shall be installed in accordance with, but not
limited to, L.A.F.D. Standard Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 55, and 59.	4.	Smoke
removal systems which shall be designed for the hazard to be protected and shall
be approved by the Chief.	5.	Standpipe systems which shall be installed in
accordance with Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Plumbing Code).	6.	Systems or
equipment not specified: The installation, arrangement of, or alteration
thereto, of other fire protection equipment or systems which are deemed
necessary to provide minimum fire protection as may be required by the Chief.
