                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMIT FEES. (§ 57.04.12)

  PERMIT FEES.	A.	Due Dates – New and Renewal:	1.	Newly Established Business
– The annual Permit fees required by this division for any newly established
business, operation, occupation, or premises shall be due and payable on or
before the close of business on the first day such business, operation,
occupation, or use of premises begins.	2.	Renewal – Existing Permits – The
annual Permit renewal fees required by this division for existing Permits
shall  become due and payable each year during the two months next preceding
the first day of January of the calendar year for which a Permit is to be
renewed. Fees for Churches and Service Centers For Armed Forces Personnel shall
be paid upon original application only and shall not be paid
thereafter.	B.	Collection – All Permit fees required by this division shall be
paid in cash and shall be collected by the Office of Finance. Upon receipt, the
Office of Finance (Amended by Ord. No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)
shall deposit the fees with the City Treasurer.	C.	Fee – (Amended by Ord. No.
178,882, Eff. 7/26/07.) The Board, with the concurrence of the City
Administrative Officer shall determine on a regular basis the verifiable costs
of the City for the items set forth in this subsection.  These costs shall be
the actual total costs incurred, including all applicable indirect costs, as
determined by the Board.  The Board shall use those costs to develop a cost
recovery schedule of applicable charges necessary to recover City costs for
issuing Permits in connection with the activities set forth in the schedule. 
The Board shall adopt these costs as fees at anytime during each fiscal year. 
The cost recovery schedule shall be based upon verifiable costs for issuing a
Permit in connection with any activity, including inspection costs, retirement
costs on direct labor and departmental and general City overhead applicable to
the issuance of a Permit.  It shall take into consideration the number of
Permits issued and affected by the Permit charges within the period of time used
for reference in development of the charges.  Upon adoption of a schedule of
verified costs by the Board as provided in this section, the Board shall
transmit the Board order to the Mayor and to the City Council.	Upon Council
approval of the proposed fee schedule, the Board order and the Board’s
proposed fee schedule shall be published in a daily newspaper in the same manner
as ordinances of the City are published pursuant to Charter Section 251. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,299, Eff. 12/19/12.)	If Council recommends that the
proposed fee schedule be amended to increase or decrease any of the fees
proposed, those changes to those items shall not become operative.  The fees
for those items on the proposed schedule, which have been disapproved or
recommended for change, shall not change but shall continue to apply unchanged
during the ensuing fiscal year under the Board order.  However, those remaining
fees not disapproved or recommended for amendment, which are adopted by the
Council, shall become effective.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,299, Eff.
12/19/12.)	The Board shall collect charges in accordance with new schedules
approved as provided in this section.	Those items to which this procedure
applies include:	1.	Aircraft Fueling Station	2.	Aircraft Refueller	3.	Airport,
Private	4.	Airport Fueling System	5.	Assembly Occupancy	6.	Atmospheric
Aboveground Tank exceeding 10,000 gallons capacity containing hazardous
materials or hazardous waste	EXCEPTION:	Atmospheric Aboveground Tanks that are
associated with an Oil Well	7.	Boarding Home	8.	Bulk Distributing
Station	9.	Central Station Signaling System:  To engage in the business of
providing an alarm service for fire protective signaling systems	10.	Church
(Original fee only)	11.	Cylinder Filling Plant	12.	Day Care	13.	Dry Cleaning
Plant	14.	Hazardous Materials:  To store, process, or use materials above
ground of the type and in the amounts exceeding those set forth in Table 4-A of
this division or exceeding the Permit amounts for hazardous materials in
L.A.F.D. Standard No. 68	15.	Heliport	16.	Hospital	17.	Hotel:	a.	Without place
of assemblage	b.	With one place of assemblage	c.	With more than one place of
assemblage	18.	Laboratory:	a.	Class A	b.	Class B	19.	Marine Oil
Terminal	20.	Marine Service Station	21.	Natural Gasoline Plant	22.	Oil
Well:	a.	Any oil well in the Los Angeles City Oil Field which has been producing
oil for more than 15 years prior to January 1, 1960	b.	Any other oil
well	23.	Refinery	24.	Residential Occupancies defined as R2.1, R2.2, R6.1, or 
R6.2 occupancies	25.	School	26.	Service Center For Armed Forces Personnel
(Original fee only)	27.	Special School	28.	Theater	29.	Theater,
Little	30.	Theater, Motion Picture	31.	Variances, as provided by Section
57.01.28 of this article	32.	Rate for four hours, or fraction of four hours,
investigations and tests required as provided in Section 57.01.30 of this
article	33.	Assignment of a fire safety officer as provided by Section 57.01.32
of this article	34.	Applications for General Approval as provided by Section
57.05.15 of this article	35.	Applications for Permits as provided by Section
57.05.31, 57.05.32, and 57.10.05 of this article	36.	Certificates of Fitness as
provided by Section 57.06.15 of this article	37.	Unified Program Facility Permit
Schedule as provided by Section 57.14.10 of this article	38.	Hazardous
Vegetation fees as provided by Section 57.21.07 B. and 57.21.07 C. of this
article	39. 	Pre-inspection fees  (Added by Ord. No. 182,299, Eff.
12/19/12.)	40.	Final Clearance inspection fees  (Added by Ord. No. 182,299,
Eff. 12/19/12.)	D.	Penalty:	1.	New Application Fee – Whenever under the
provisions of this division an annual Permit fee is required to be paid for any
business operation, occupation, or premises, and such fee is not paid on or
before the last day of the month following the month in which business,
operation, occupation, or premises was established and the fee became due, such
fee shall be delinquent and an additional sum equal to 50 percent of the fee so
required shall be imposed for delinquency. Such additional sum shall become a
part of the fee required by this division.	2.	Renewal Application Fee –
Whenever an annual Permit renewal fee is required to be paid and such fee is not
paid during the two months next preceding the first day of January of the
calendar year for which the Permit is to be renewed, such fee shall be
delinquent and an additional sum equal to 50 percent of the fee so required
shall be imposed for such delinquency. Such additional sum shall become a part
of the fee required by this division.	3.	The penalty or any part thereof may be
waived by the Office of Finance (Amended by Ord. No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.) with the approval of the City Attorney.	E.	Minor Errors in
Payment – In the event a discrepancy exists between the amount of the fee paid
and the amount of the fee due under this division resulting in an underpayment
or an overpayment of the fee in the amount of $2.00 or less, the Office of
Finance (Amended by Ord. No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) may accept
and recommend such underpayment or overpayment without other notification to the
permittee.	F.	Payment or Other Communication Made by Mail – Whenever any
payment, statement, report, or other communication received by the Office of
Finance is received after the time prescribed by this division for the receipt
thereof, but is in an envelope bearing the postmark showing that it was mailed
prior to the time prescribed in this division for the receipt thereof, or
whenever the Office of Finance is furnished substantial proof that the payment,
statement, report, request, or other communication was, in fact, deposited in
the United States mail prior to the time prescribed for receipt thereof, the
Office of Finance shall regard such payment, statement, report, request, or
other communication as having been received on time. (Amended by Ord. No.
173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	G.	Fee Exempt Permits – Upon
application, fee exempt Permits shall be issued to the following without the
payment of the fees prescribed by this division: City of Los Angeles; County of
Los Angeles; Los Angeles Unified School District; Los Angeles Community College
District; or any municipal corporation, department, or office
thereof.	H.	Permits – Charge for Duplication – Duplicate Permits may be
issued by the Office of Finance to replace any previously issued Permit which
has been lost or destroyed upon filing an affidavit by the holder of the Permit
or authorized representative attesting to such fact and upon paying to the
Office of Finance of a fee of $1.00 therefor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,276,
Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	I.	Refunds – Investigation Fees, Overpayments,
Duplicate Payment—Any refunds of fees collected under the provisions of this
division shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Sections 22.12 and
22.13 of the L.A.M.C.	J.	Inspection Right – Office of Finance (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) – The Office of Finance shall have
the power and authority to enter, free of charge, during business hours, any
premises or place of business which requires a Permit under the provisions of
this division, and to demand exhibition of a Permit and evidence of amount of
fee paid. Any person having any Permit issued in his or her possession or under
his or her control who fails to exhibit the same and evidence of amounts of fees
paid on demand, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
