                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION AND PUBLIC SAFETY. (§ 57.03.03)

  BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION AND PUBLIC SAFETY.	The Bureau of Fire Prevention
and Public Safety of the Department, created by Ordinance No. 34,352 (N.S.,
approved June 19, 1916) is hereby authorized to continue.	A.	The Bureau of Fire
Prevention and Public Safety shall consist of the following persons:	1.	The Fire
Marshal, who shall be the Chief Fire Prevention Engineer of the Bureau of Fire
Prevention.	2.	Such other officers and members as shall be required to carry out
the provisions of this article.	3.	Not more than 60 Fire Prevention Inspectors,
who shall be selected from outside the Department and who shall serve without
pay; and,	4.	Such other assistants and employees as the City Council shall
provide.	B.	The function of this Bureau shall be to administer and enforce the
fire prevention and life safety provisions of this article and shall include but
not be limited to the following:	1.	The prevention of fires.	2.	The
investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fire or life safety
hazards.	3.	The elimination of fire and life safety hazards in any building or
structure, including those under construction, any premises, marine vessel,
aircraft, vehicle, or the appurtenances and equipment thereof.	4.	The
maintenance of fire protection equipment and systems	5.	The regulation of
storage, use, and handling of hazardous materials and hazardous
substances.	6.	Enforcement of the basic building regulations of the State Fire
Marshal as they apply to the City of Los Angeles in matters relating to fire,
panic, and explosion safety.
