                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BONDS AND IN LIEU DEPOSITS FOR TEMPORARY GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATORY CORE HOLES. (§
57.05.33)

  BONDS AND IN LIEU DEPOSITS FOR TEMPORARY GEOLOGICAL EXPLORATORY CORE
HOLES.	A.	Each application for a permit to drill a temporary geological
exploratory core hole shall be accompanied by a bond approved by the Chief and
the City Attorney, executed by the applicant as principal, and by a surety
company authorized to do business in the State, as surety, or by the applicant
and two responsible sureties satisfactory to the Chief. A bond in the sum of
$1,000.00 shall be filed for each temporary geological exploratory core hole for
which the permit is requested. In lieu of filing such individual bonds, the
applicant may file a blanket bond in the sum of $3,000.00, covering all
temporary geological exploratory core holes for which the permit is
requested.	1.	Where the $3,000.00 blanket bond is filed, additional core holes
shall be covered thereunder by a rider to be attached thereto, specifically
describing such additional property as the bond is to cover, said rider to be
executed by the principal and surety in substantially the same manner as the
bond is executed, having the approval of the Chief and the City Attorney.	2.	The
total aggregate liability under the blanket bond shall be limited to the sum of
$3,000.00; provided, however, that the maximum liability for any one core hole
shall not exceed the sum of $1,000.00.	B.	The bond shall be so conditioned that
the principal shall comply with any of the provisions and requirements of this
article, and any and all amendments thereof, and that in default thereof, the
principal shall pay to the City of Los Angeles, any loss or damage resulting
therefrom and shall reimburse the City for the costs and expenses of the proper
abandonment of such core hole.	C.	In lieu of a surety bond as here and above
prescribed, the Chief may accept as such bond and in lieu of any other bond, an
agreement of indemnity executed by the applicant or permittee and accompanied by
a physical deposit of cash in substantially the following form and
manner.	1.	The applicant or permittee shall deposit and at all times maintain on
deposit with the Treasurer of the City of Los Angeles, an amount in cash
equivalent to the amount of the bond required by this article;	2.	The applicant
or permittee shall, concurrently with the making of said deposit, execute and
deliver to the Chief an agreement in writing subject to the approval of the City
Attorney confirming such deposit and agreeing to indemnify the City against any
loss and damage arising out of the failure on the part of the applicant or
permittee faithfully to comply with any of the provisions of this
article;	3.	The City Treasurer shall have the custody of the cash deposited
hereunder;	4.	The Chief may determine the fact of a default by the applicant or
permittee in the performance of all of the terms and conditions of this article
and the amount of loss or damage sustained by the City thereby provided for and
order the reimbursement thereof from the deposit. The Chief shall transmit his
findings and order to the Treasurer who may without notice reimburse the City
for the loss and damage found by the Chief to have been sustained;	5.	The
agreement of indemnity herein provided for may set forth such additional terms
and conditions as in the judgment of the Chief may be necessary or convenient to
carry out the purposes and intent of this article.	D.	Whenever the Chief, as
elsewhere in this article provided, extends the time within which a permittee
may perform any acts required by this article, such extension of time shall not
be deemed to exonerate or discharge any surety upon any bond filed
hereunder.	E.	The Chief shall have the power to authorize all necessary acts to
be done to make any such temporary geological exploratory core hole comply with
the provisions of this article relating thereto, or to perform the necessary
acts to abandon and demolish any such core hole, and to restore the property to
its natural condition, and the City Controller of this City shall approve all
warrants held by the Chief Treasurer of this City for the necessary expense
incurred in correcting the violations of this article relating thereto, and the
abandoning and the demolition of any such core hole.	F.	The term of each such
bond shall begin upon the date thereof and shall terminate upon the proper
abandonment of such core hole in the manner required by this section.	G.	Every
temporary geological exploratory core hole shall be abandoned in a manner
approved by the Chief The method of abandonment as determined by the Chief,
shall be based upon a consideration of all safety factors, including but not
limited to the depth of the hole, the diameter of the hole, the location of the
hole, and the type of soil in which the hole is drilled.
