                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DELINQUENT FEES – UNCOLLECTIBLE. (§ 57.04.13)

  DELINQUENT FEES – UNCOLLECTIBLE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	If the Office of
Finance finds that any Permit fee due or believed to be due under the provisions
of this division cannot be collected, or that efforts to collect any such amount
would be disproportionately costly with relation to the probable outcome of the
collecting efforts, the Office of Finance may prepare a report setting forth his
or her findings and the reasons therefor, and submit it to a Board of Review
constituted as provided in Section 21.16 of the L.A.M.C. On unanimous approval
of a finding by the Board of Review, the Office of Finance may remove from his
active accounts receivable any unpaid fee owing or believed to be owing from one
person which amounts to less than $100.00. If the report relates to a claim for
the fees owing or believed to be owing from one person which amounts to $100.00
or more, the Board of Review shall make its recommendations upon the finding
and, if the Board of Review unanimously approves the finding, submit it to the
Council with the finding of the Office of Finance. If the Board of Review does
not unanimously approve the finding, the matter shall be returned to the Office
of Finance. Upon the approval of the findings by the Council, the Office of
Finance may remove from his active accounts receivable the amount so approved.
The Office of Finance may include in a single report his findings and supporting
reasons regarding fees due from more than one person. The removal from the
active accounts receivable of the Office of Finance of any unpaid fee as
provided herein shall not preclude the City from collecting or attempting to
collect any such fee that later proves to be collectible.
