                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES. (§ 57.05.15)

  FEES.	A.	Before accepting an application for any of the following General
Approval required by this division, the Department shall collect the fees
required therefor established by the most current cost recovery schedule
published as provided by Section 57.04.12-C and applicable thereto, and upon
payment of said fees, shall cause them to be deposited, with the City
Treasurer.	1.	General Approval (required):	1.	Fire hydrant	2.	Candle device for
place of assemblage	3.	Roofing kettle, over 15 gallons capacity	4.	Automatic or
self-closing shutoff valve for hazardous materials	5.	Automatic or self-closing
nozzle for hazardous materials	6.	Vaporizer or mixer for liquefied
gases	7.	Portable tank or portable shipping tank	8.	Cargo tank of a tank
vehicle	9.	Internal valve, vent, or dome cover for cargo tank	10.	Hydrant cart
for aircraft refueling	11.	Paint, coating, or other surface finish	2.	General
Approval (optional):	1.	Atmospheric tank	2.	Low pressure tank
	3.	Special vessel	4.	Gas holder	5.	Spray booth or spray tunnel with any
dimension greater than three feet	6.	Dip tank with more than 150 gallons
capacity or more than five square feet of surface area	7.	Flow coat
machine	8.	Drying oven	9.	Industrial oven or furnace not otherwise
specified	10.	Industrial proceeding equipment not otherwise
specified	11.	Automatic fire extinguishing system except automatic sprinkler
system	B.	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)  When the length of time
spent in investigating an application for a General Approval is such that the
charge for hours spent, as computed in accordance with the cost recovery
schedule established under Section 57.04.12-C, Item 31, exceeds the schedule fee
established for that particular type of approval, the charge as computed
pursuant to Section 57.04.12-C, Item 31, shall be paid to the Department before
any General Approval is issued.	C.	Fee exempt General Approvals, without the
payment of the fees prescribed pursuant to Section 57.04.12-C, shall be issued
to the following: City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, Los Angeles City
School Districts, Los Angeles Community College District or any municipal
corporation, department, or office thereof.
