                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE TESTS. (§ 57.01.30)

  AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE TESTS.	A.	Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the  provisions of this article, or to substantiate claims for
alternate materials or methods of compliance, the Department may require that
evidence of tests be submitted as proof of compliance or to substantiate claims
that may be made. Such tests shall be made at the expense of the owner or his
agent.	B.	(Amended by Ord. No. 169,996, Eff. 9/24/94.)  When determined by the
Fire Marshal, or when requested by an applicant for his own convenience and
accepted by the Fire Marshal, certain approvals may be granted which are not
otherwise specifically required by Section 57.05.10 of this article.  In the
conduct of the necessary investigation and tests, preliminary to the granting of
such approvals, the Department shall affix a fee for each four hours, or
fraction thereof, devoted to such investigations and tests established as
provided by Section 57.04.12 of this article.	1.	Every approval granted in
accordance with the provisions of this subsection shall be valid for a period of
three years after the date of granting and may be renewed for additional
three-year periods.	2.	Applications for renewal of approvals shall be filed in
the same manner as for an original approval.	3.	Each such application shall be
accompanied by a renewal fee.  Whenever the application for renewal is filed
prior to the expiration date of the approval, the renewal fee shall be 50
percent of the current fee required for the first four hours. Whenever the
application for renewal is filed after the expiration date of the approval, the
renewal fee shall be as required for a new approval.	4.	The granting of a
renewal of the approval shall be handled in the same manner as for an original
approval.
