                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POWER OF REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION. (§ 57.119.04)

  POWER OF REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168,851, Eff. 8/2/93.)	A.	Authority To Revoke Or Suspend. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, the Chief
shall have the power to revoke or suspend any permit upon proof to the
satisfaction of the Chief of a violation by the permittee of the provisions of
this article, the rules and regulations of this Department adopted under the
authority of Section 57.01.34 of this article, applicable law or the terms and
conditions of any permit.  Such revocation or suspension shall be in accordance
with the provisions of Division 3 of this article.  Whenever any person fails
to pay the permit fee as provided for in Section 57.119.05, prior to its
becoming delinquent, the Chief, upon hearing, after giving such person 10 days
notice in writing specifying the time and place of hearing and requiring the
person to show cause why the permit shall not be revoked for such failure, may
revoke or suspend the permit issued herein.  Notice shall be served in the same
manner as notices are served under Section 21.16 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	B.	Operation After Revocation or Suspension.  It shall be unlawful for
any person to operate or  maintain any high-rise building after the permit
issued therefor has been suspended or revoked pursuant to the provisions of this
division unless the permit has been reinstated or a new permit issued.  Any
person who operates or maintains a high-rise building after the permit issued
therefor has been suspended or revoked pursuant to the provisions of this
section, and before such suspended permit has been reinstated or a new permit
issued, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
