                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EMERGENCY PLANNING. (§ 57.113.09)

  EMERGENCY PLANNING.	A.	Every institution as required by the Chief shall
implement a written and approved Fire/Life Safety Program which includes
procedures for notifying the Fire Department, procedures for the use of fire
protection equipment, and an emergency evacuation plan.	B.	All emergency plans,
procedures, and evacuation signs shall be submitted to the Fire Department for
approval prior to implementation. The approved copy of the Fire/Life Safety
Program shall be available for review by the Chief.	C.	Fire drills shall be
scheduled and performed quarterly for each shift implementing the fire/life
safety emergency procedures. A written record shall be kept on forms approved by
the Chief of all such drills. Records shall give the date and time of each drill
held. Records shall be maintained for a period of three years and be available
for review by the Chief.	D.	The evacuation plan shall be posted throughout the
facility and shall include the following minimum requirements:	1.	Evacuation
routes, including locations of exits.	2.	The location of fire alarm pull
stations.	3.	The location of portable fire extinguishers and other fire
protection equipment.	4.	The phone number of the Fire Department.	5.	Designation
of outside refuge areas where guests or patients are to assemble after
evacuation of the building.	6.	Assignment of a responsible person to call the
Fire Department upon notification of any fire or upon the activation of any fire
protection system.	E.	The Fire/Life Safety Program shall be updated and approved
annually. All personnel shall receive approved training conducted by the
Department or by a health care facility instructor who is certified in
accordance with Division 6 of this article. New employees shall receive such
training within 30 days of employment.
