                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. (§ 57.111.10)

  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.	A.	No person in any day care or educational occupancy
shall use store, or dispense any hazardous materials other than that amount
required for maintenance, demonstration, treatment, or laboratory
work.	B.	Hazardous materials used and stored for such use shall comply with
appropriate divisions of this article, Title 19 C.A.C., and as
follows:	1.	Flammable and combustible liquids stored for such purposes shall be
in original containers or in safety cans. Storage in excess of 10 gallons shall
be in approved Cabinets, Hazardous Materials Rooms, or H-1, H-2 or H-3
Occupancies.	2.	Hazardous materials brought on the premises of an educational
occupancy for use in a laboratory shall be dated upon arrival. Each container
shall bear the date the container is opened for use. The date shall be marked in
indelible ink. Hazardous materials shall not be stored beyond the recommended
period established by the manufacturer or beyond a period deemed safe by the
Chief.	C.	Every educational occupancy that uses, stores, or handles any
hazardous material shall maintain a current inventory list of all hazardous
materials located on the premises.	EXCEPTION:	Quantities used for maintenance
purposes and the operation of equipment when stored in approved containers and
locations.	D.	The inventory list shall include but not be limited to: The name
of the material, the identification of the hazards of the material, the
quantity, the date received, the shelf life of the material and location on the
premises. The owner, manager, or person having charge and control of the
educational occupancy shall be responsible for an annual review of the inventory
list for accuracy and reevaluation of the need for the material. The inventory
list shall be maintained on the premises and be available for inspection by the
Chief. When the Chief determines that any of the materials on the inventory list
have become a fire/life hazard, the person having charge and control of the
educational occupancy shall immediately make proper arrangements for the safe
removal of such materials from the premises.
