                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TIRE STORAGE. (§ 57.104.05)

  TIRE STORAGE.	A.	Inside Storage:  Tires stored inside of buildings shall not
block doors, windows, or exitways.  Piles and racks of tires which are placed
directly against and parallel to walls, shall not extend out from such walls
more than five feet.  Piles or racks of tires placed in rows perpendicular to
the walls shall not exceed 10 feet in width or 50 feet in length.  Every row of
tires shall be accessible on at least two sides by an aisle at least three feet
wide.  Tires which are stored in such a pattern as to form deadend aisles
against the walls of the building shall terminate at an aisle at least six feet
wide at the inside end of such pile.  Every rack or pile of tires shall be kept
at least 18 inches below sprinkler heads in a sprinklered building.  Piles of
tires shall be kept at least three feet below the ceiling or roof and every
chord, beam or girder in an unsprinklered building.  Racks of tires shall be
kept at least 18 inches below the ceiling or roof and every chord, beam, or
girder in an unsprinklered building.  Piles and racks of tires shall maintain
stability and shall not become a hazard by falling during a fire or other
emergency.  The following diagrams explain but do not restrict nor prohibit
other methods and arrangements which otherwise comply with this
section.	B.	Outside Storage:  Piles of tires or carcasses shall not exceed 7200
cubic feet in volume and shall be separated from every other pile by an aisle at
least 10 feet wide. Tires in racks shall comply with the length, width, and
aisle requirements for inside storage.PRESSURIZED RUBBER CEMENTING
