                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR INSTITUTIONAL OCCUPANCIES. (§ 57.140.17)

  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR INSTITUTIONAL OCCUPANCIES.	Portable fire
extinguishers shall be provided, installed, and maintained in institutional
occupancies as follows:	A.	Hospitals, sanitariums, asylums, jails, and similar
occupancies:	1.	At least one Class 2A portable fire extinguisher shall be
provided on each floor and distributed throughout the building or premises in
such a manner that the horizontal distance of travel to the nearest extinguisher
from any point in the building shall not exceed 75 feet.	2.	Additional
extinguishers of suitable type shall be installed for the protection of special
hazards as designated by the Chief, which shall include:	a.	Kitchens,
laboratories, pharmacies, and combustible anesthetics storage areas: At least
one Class l0B:C extinguisher.	b.	X-ray laboratories: At least one Class l0B:C
extinguisher.	c.	Operating rooms: At least one Class l0B:C
extinguisher.	d.	Storage areas: At least one Class 2A and/or l0B:C extinguisher,
depending on the type of materials stored.	B.	Boarding Homes:	1.	At least one
Class 2A portable fire extinguisher shall be provided on each floor and
distributed throughout the building or premises in such a manner that the
horizontal distance of travel to the nearest extinguisher from any point in a
building shall not exceed 75 feet.	2.	One or more additional extinguishers of
suitable type and size shall be installed for the protection of special hazards
as designated by the Chief.  These shall include:	a.	Storage areas: At least
one Class 2A extinguisher.	b.	Kitchens: At least one Class l0B:C extinguisher.
