                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE DETECTION AND SIGNALING SYSTEMS. (§ 57.10.13)

  FIRE DETECTION AND SIGNALING SYSTEMS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168,176, Eff. 9/20/92.)	A.	All existing fire detection and
alarm systems shall remain in place and active.  Any alteration to this
equipment must be approved by both the Fire Department and the Department of
Building and Safety.	If a permit is granted for work that requires the system to
be disabled, a Fire Watch meeting all the requirements listed in Section
57.13.06 of the Fire Code must be maintained at all times as described in
Section 21 of this division.	B.	Existing fire alarm manual pull boxes, Fire
Department communication jacks, and signaling systems shall be maintained in
place and active.  The foregoing items shall be clearly marked with signs
containing lettering which is a minimum of 3&#038;″ high x 1/2&#038;″ wide
on a contrasting background.	If the foregoing items are covered by plastic, each
device shall be surrounded by a square of red duct-type tape.  In addition, a
cutting device, also surrounded by a square of red duct-type tape, shall be kept
immediately adjacent to the device.	C.	All fire and life safety systems which
have been disconnected require joint acceptance by the Fire Department and the
Department of Building and Safety upon their reconnection.	D.	Fire-rated
partitions, doors, and other fire cutoffs shall not be temporarily or
permanently modified without the joint approval of the Fire Department and the
Department of Building and Safety.	E.	In the event that a containment area
impedes the normal operation of any existing elevator smoke detector, an
additional temporary elevator recall smoke detector shall be installed in the
containment area under permit from the Department of Building and Safety.  Any
such detector must be tested by the Fire Department before any abatement work
begins in that area.
