                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CLASSIFICATION OF HAZARDS. (§ 57.140.05)

  CLASSIFICATION OF HAZARDS.	The selection of the type and capacity of a
portable fire extinguisher shall be based on the hazards of the area to be
protected.  The following three hazard levels shall be used in determining the
degree of hazard:	Light (Low) Hazard:  Locations where the majority of contents
contain small quantities of Class A combustible materials, including furnishings
and decorations.  These include buildings or rooms occupied as apartments,
hotels, hospitals, offices, classrooms, churches, and drinking and dining
establishments having an occupant load of less than 50.  Small amounts of
flammable and combustible liquids used for duplicating machines, art
departments, or printing rooms are included, provided that they are kept in
closed containers and safety stored.	Ordinary (Moderate) Hazard:  Locations
where the total amount of Class A and Class B hazards are present in greater
amounts than expected under light (low) hazard occupancies.  These include
industrial properties, printing and publishing plants, laundries, retail,
wholesale, light manufacturing, kitchens, laboratories, auto-fueling stations,
parking garages, warehouses, and similar uses.	Extra (High) Hazard:  Locations
where the total amount of Class A and Class B hazards are present in storage,
production, use, and/or finished product over and above those expected and
classed as ordinary (moderate) hazards.  These include woodworking, vehicle
repair, aircraft and boat servicing, plastic foam manufacturing, manufacturing
processes using Class I, II, or IIIA liquids, warehousing of high-piled storage
and similar uses.
