                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. (§ 57.113.11)

  STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.	The handling and storage of flammable and
combustible liquids, the use and maintenance of dispensing and transfer
apparatus, spray booths, underground and aboveground tanks, and similar
equipment shall comply with applicable divisions of this article.	A.	Flammable
and Combustible Liquids:	1.	Approved containers, other than safety cans, shall
not exceed a capacity of one gallon.	2.	Glass containers shall not exceed a
capacity of 32 ounces and shall not be used for Class I or II liquids unless
such Class I or II liquids are water miscible.	3.	Not more than 10 gallons of
Class I, II, or IIIA liquids in combination shall be stored in closed
containers, other than safety cans, outside of a Hazardous Materials Cabinet or
Hazardous Materials Room.	4.	Not more than 25 gallons of Class I. II, or IIIA
liquids in combination shall be stored in safety cans outside of a Hazardous
Materials Room.	5.	Quantities of Class I. II. or IIIA liquids in excess of those
set forth in this section shall be stored in a Hazardous Materials Cabinet or
Hazardous Materials Room.	B.	Ether:	1.	Not more than five pounds of ether in
approved containers may be stored in an anesthetizing area with no individual
container to exceed one-quarter pound.	2.	Not more than 25 pounds of ether in
approved containers shall be stored outside of a Hazardous Materials Cabinet or
Hazardous Materials Room. Such storage shall be remote from the anesthetizing
area and shall be in a well ventilated room without open flame devices.	C.	Dated
Materials:	1.	Hazardous materials shall not be stored beyond the recommended
period established by the manufacturer or beyond a period deemed safe by the
Chief in accordance with safe practices for the handling and storage of
hazardous materials.	2.	An hazardous materials with a limited safe use time
shall be dated upon receipt and at such time the container is opened for use.
The dates shall be clearly marked in indelible ink. Hazardous materials shall be
disposed of in a safe manner when the material has passed the limited safe use
time.
