                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

YEARLY SERVICE. (§ 57.140.07)

  YEARLY SERVICE.	A.	Every required pressurized (stored-pressure) portable fire
extinguisher shall be inspected, emptied, and serviced yearly or immediately
after use, whichever occurs first.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Carbon dioxide extinguishers
need not be recharged unless there is a loss of weight of 10 percent or more of
the rated capacity stamped on the extinguisher.	2.	Liquefied gas extinguishers
need not be recharged except when the cylinder of such extinguisher shows a loss
of weight of five percent or more of the rated capacity as compared with the
weight shown on the extinguisher or on the label attached to the
extinguisher.	3.	Factory sealed disposable (nonrefillable) extinguisher
cylinders shall be replaced when the total loss of weight is one-fourth ounce or
more of the rated capacity as shown on the cylinder. Such extinguishers shall
not be recharged.	B.	All other types of required portable fire extinguishers
shall be inspected and/or serviced yearly or immediately after use, whichever
occurs first.	EXCEPTION:	Factory sealed disposable (nonrefillable) extinguishers
shall not be recharged.	C.	(Added by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)  Any
person who violates this section shall be  punishable by at least a mandatory
minimum fine of $100.00, up to and not exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in
the County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.  Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for
each and every day, or portion thereof, during which a violation of any
provision of this section is committed, continued, or permitted by such person
and shall be punishable accordingly.
