                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE CONTROL ROOM. (§ 57.118.02)

  FIRE CONTROL ROOM.
	(Title and section amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	A fire control
room shall be provided in the building design for every new high-rise building
and located near or adjacent to the main entrance to the building.  The fire
control room must be a minimum of 100 square feet with a minimum dimension of 10
feet.  This room shall be separated from the remainder of the building by not
less than one-hour fire-resistive construction with all openings protected by
assemblies having a fire-resistive rating of not less than 45 minutes.	The
entrance to the fire control room shall be identified by a sign reading, “”
in letters not less than one and one-half inches in height.	The fire control
room shall contain the following equipment and shall not be used for any other
purpose:	A.	The building communication system panel and controls (Public Address
System).	B.	The Fire Department voice communication system and handheld phone
sets.	C.	The fire detection and fire alarm system annunciator and control
panels.	D.	Elevator recall switch and a status panel indicating the location of
all elevator cars.	E.	A telephone connected to the public telephone system for
Fire Department use.	F.	Sprinkler valve and water flow detector annunciator
panels.	G.	Standby power and emergency electrical power systems status
indicators.	H.	Controls for unlocking stairshaft doors when doors are locked
from the stairshaft side.	I.	The air handling system (smoke evacuation) control
switches and fan operation indicators.	J.	Stairway pressurization system control
switches and operation indicators.	K.	Fire pump status indicators and water
supply tank status indicators.	L.	Other fire protection equipment and system
controls.
