                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 57.115.03)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following words and phrases used in this division shall be
defined as follows:	Membrane – A thin, flexible, impervious material capable
of being supported by an air pressure of 1.5 inches of water column. Membrane
Structure  A temporary structure that includes but is not limited to the
following:	1.	Air-Inflated Structure – A building where the shape of the
structure is maintained by air pressurization of cells or tubes to form a barrel
vault over the usable area. Occupants of such a structure do not occupy the
pressurized area used to support the structure.	2.	Air-Supported Structure – A
building wherein the shape of the structure is attained by air pressure and
occupants of the structure are within the elevated pressure area. Air-supported
structures are of two basic types:	a.	Single Skin – Where there is only the
single outer skin and the air pressure is directly against the skin.	b.	Double
Skin – Similar to a single skin, but with an attached liner which is separated
from the outer skin and provides an air space which serves for insulation,
acoustic, aesthetic or similar purposes.	3.	Cable Structure  – A
nonpressurized structure in which a mast and cable system provides support and
tension to the membrane weather barrier and the membrane imparts structural
stability to the structure.	4.	Frame-Covered Structure – A nonpressurized
building wherein the structure is composed of a rigid framework to support
tensioned membrane which provides the weather barrier.	Noncombustible Membrane
Structure – A membrane structure in which the membrane and all component parts
of the structure are noncombustible material.
