                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

OBSTRUCTION OF EXIT FACILITIES. (§ 57.110.11)

  OBSTRUCTION OF EXIT FACILITIES.	A.	Obstruction of Exits: No person shall
maintain or place any chair, table, stool, sofa, settee, booth, easel, cameras,
microphone, cable, false front, rope barrier, or other obstruction except a
breakaway rope necessary to control and maintain order in any exit of any
assembly occupancy while the same is open for business or while there are
persons other than employees therein.	B.	Obstruction of Lobbies and Foyers: No
person shall maintain or place any chair, table, stool, sofa, settee, easel,
booth, false front, or any other obstruction which will reduce the required exit
width in any lobby, foyer, mezzanine, or other public area of any assembly
occupancy while the same is open for business or while there are persons other
than employees therein, except by written permission of the
Chief.	C.	Obstruction of Exits by Persons: No person shall block, impede, or
obstruct any exit to a public way or any access to a building, structure or
premises, in such a manner as to prevent or interfere with the use of such exits
or access by any person who is exiting or entering said occupied assembly
occupancy.	D.	Waiting Spaces: In theaters, restaurants, and similar places of
assemblage where persons are admitted to the occupancy at times when seats are
not available for them and are allowed to wait in a lobby or similar space until
seats are available, such use of the lobby or similar space shall not encroach
upon the required clear width of exits. Such waiting shall be restricted to
areas other than the required exitway.  Maximum occupant load for such waiting
spaces shall be one person for each seven square feet of waiting space.  Exits
shall be provided in addition to the exits specified for the main assembly area
and shall conform in arrangement with Division 33 of this article.
