                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS – INVESTIGATION AND PROCEDURES FOR GRANTING – POWER TO DENY. (§
57.14.05)

  PERMITS – INVESTIGATION AND PROCEDURES FOR GRANTING – POWER TO DENY.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	A.	Investigation and Procedure for
Granting:	1.	The Fire Marshal shall investigate application for a Permit, and
such investigation shall be made by authorized members of the Department.	2.	The
Fire Marshal may require such additional information as may be necessary to
carry out the investigation of the application for a Permit.	3.	If, after
investigation and consideration of any application, and any plans or
specifications required in connection therewith, the Chief shall determine that
the proposed business, operation, occupation or premises will not create any
undue hazard as a result of fire or panic, and the applicant is in compliance
with all applicable unified program elements, the Chief shall approve the
application.	4.	The Chief’s approval of the application may be made subject to
terms and conditions necessary for the safeguarding of life and property from
the hazards of fire, explosion or panic.	5.	On approval of the application by
the Chief and the payment of the required fee the Department shall issue the
Permit.	B.	Power to Deny:	The Chief, in his or her discretion, is hereby
empowered to deny or withhold approval of a Permit for which an application has
been made if the building, premises, equipment, apparatus, or the facilities for
the establishing, maintaining, conducting or operating the business, operation,
occupation, or premises for which the Permit is requested is or are insufficient
or are unfit or incapable of being used, maintained, established, or operated to
comply with this article or other applicable laws and the Rules and Regulations
of the Department.
