                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

OBSTRUCTIONS. (§ 57.12.02)

  OBSTRUCTIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)	A.	No person shall install or
maintain any wire, barbed wire, razor ribbon, fence, cable, aerial, antenna, or
other obstruction on any building roof, parapet wall, or openings in an exterior
wall required for Fire Department access, in such a manner as to obstruct access
or egress, or cause a hazardous condition in the event of fire or other
emergency.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Guy wires, rods, aerial or antenna masts may be
attached to a roof structure having a slope of less than 30 degrees provided
there is full clearance of seven feet or more between the roof and said
obstruction.	2.	Guy wires or rods required to support aerial or antenna masts
may be attached to a roof structure a lateral distance from the mast not in
excess of one-sixth the height of the mast.	3.	Metal bars, grills, grates, or
similar products manufactured to restrict entry through windows or exterior
doors may be installed in accordance with  Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building
Code).	4.	Buildings located within eight feet of utility poles or similar
structures which could otherwise be used to gain access to the building’s
roof, balcony or similar surfaces. Such obstruction may extend to where the
surfaces are more than eight feet from the pole or access structure but shall
extend no farther.	B.	Any person who violates this section shall be punishable
by at least a mandatory minimum fine of $200.00, up to and not exceeding
$1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than
six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or portion thereof, during
which a violation of any provision of this section is committed, continued, or
permitted by such person and shall be punishable accordingly.
