                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL DUTIES OF PERSONS. (§ 57.20.01)

  GENERAL DUTIES OF PERSONS.	A.	No person shall permit any fire to spread so as
to endanger the person or property of another; or use or operate a welding
torch, tar pot, internal combustion engine, or any other device which may cause
a fire unless proper removal of flammable material surrounding the operation is
accomplished or such other reasonable precautions are taken which are necessary
to insure against the starting and spreading of fires.	B.	Whenever a fire occurs
in any building, or on any premises, vessel, or aircraft, or in any vehicle,
apparatus, process, or equipment, it shall be the duty of the owner, manager,
operator, or person in control, upon notification or discovery of such fire
and/or smoke to immediately notify the Department and furnish all required
information relative to the incident This requirement shall not be construed to
forbid the owner, manager, operator, or person in control of the building,
premises, vessel, aircraft, vehicle, apparatus, process, or equipment from using
all diligence necessary to extinguish such fire prior to the arrival of the
Department.	C.	Any person upon discovering evidence of spontaneous heating or
other abnormal heating of any merchandise, commodity, cargo, shipment, or other
material of any kind in any building, vessel, aircraft, vehicle, appliance,
apparatus, tank, or open stack or pile, or any person upon discovering or being
apprised of an uncontrolled hazardous gas leak or hazardous material or
substance spill shall immediately notify the Department.	D.	No person owning,
operating, or having charge or control of any device, appliance, apparatus,
equipment, tank, vehicle, vessel, aircraft, building, structure, business,
premises or other place or thing shall:	1.	Release or transfer any flammable
liquid, combustible liquid, liquefied flammable gas, or any other hazardous
material or substance in such a manner as to give rise to a fire, explosion,
panic, or other hazardous condition.	2.	Use any tank, tank vehicle, cargo tank,
tank trailer, tank car, and any device, appliance, apparatus, or equipment used
in conjunction therewith, when leaking or in such state of disrepair as to cause
a leak	E.	When the transfer of any flammable liquid, combustible liquid,
liquefied flammable gas, or any other hazardous material or substance is deemed
necessary by the Department to safeguard life and property from fire, explosion,
panic, or other hazardous condition, the transfer shall be performed under
Special Permit obtained from the Department.	F.	Whenever alarm signals initiated
by manual pull stations, smoke or heat detectors, automatic fire extinguishing
systems, or other fire protection systems are transmitted to any location on or
off the premises, they shall be treated as a fire alarm and the owner, operator,
or person in charge or control of the building or premises shall immediately
relay the alarm signal to the Fire Department.
