                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE HYDRANTS AND OTHER FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT. (§ 57.20.06)

  FIRE HYDRANTS AND OTHER FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.	A.	No person shall erect,
construct, maintain, or build, or cause to be erected, constructed, or built,
any structure, screen, or fence in such a location as to prohibit or restrict
the ready operation and use of any fire hydrant, fire department connection to
sprinkler system, exterior or combination standpipe system, or other installed
fire protection equipment, nor plant or allow the growth of any vegetation which
will hide or obscure said installed fire protection equipment.	B.	No person
shall park or place any vehicle or other mobile equipment in such a manner or
position which would hinder or restrict the immediate and complete use, by the
Department, of any fire hydrant, fire department connection to a sprinkler
system, exterior or combination standpipe system, or any other fire protection
equipment which is installed for fire department use.	C.	The Department shall
have the authority to identify any fire hydrant by installing a blue reflector
on the street or access road adjacent to the hydrant.  (Amended by Ord. No.
167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	D.	(Added by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)  Any
person who violates this section shall be punishable by at least a mandatory
minimum fine of $200.00, up to and not exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in
the County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.  Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for
each and every day, or portion thereof, during which a violation of any
provision of this section is committed, continued, or permitted by such person
and shall be punishable accordingly.
