                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HEARINGS TO BE HELD IN CONNECTION WITH CONSTRUCTION OF FIREROADS. (§ 57.20.08)

  HEARINGS TO BE HELD IN CONNECTION WITH CONSTRUCTION OF FIREROADS.	A.	It shall
be the duty of the Chief to make a report to the Board concerning any plans for
the construction or widening of fire roads, firebreaks, and fuelbreaks.	B.	Prior
to the performance of any work of construction or widening of fire roads,
firebreaks, and fuelbreaks, the Board shall hold a public hearing on the plans
therefor.	1.	Notice of the time, place, and purpose of a public hearing shall be
given in the following manner:	a.	By at least one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City, designated for the purpose of the City Clerk,
not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing.	b.	By mailing written
notice not less than 10 days prior to the date of such hearing, to the owners of
all property within 300 feet of the boundaries of the proposed fire roads,
firebreaks, and fuelbreaks, or in those instances where existing fire roads,
firebreaks, and fuelbreaks are proposed to be widened within 300 feet of the new
boundaries. Where all property within the 300-foot radius is under the same
ownership as the property upon which the construction is proposed to be
performed, the owners of all property adjoining that property in the same
ownership as that involved in the proposed construction, or separated only by a
street, alley, public right-of-way or other easement, shall also be notified in
the same manner.	C.	The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to
firebreaks authorized to be constructed pursuant to Section 57.01.20 of this
article.
