                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STORING AND DISPOSING PROHIBITIONS. (§ 57.21.06)

  STORING AND DISPOSING PROHIBITIONS.	A.	The storing or disposing of hazardous
refuse on any public street, alley, sidewalk, parkway, park recreation area,
easement, firebreak, fire road, walkway, or freeway, except in those authorized
areas, bins, or containers posted or marked for such use, is prohibited.	B.	The
storing or disposing of hazardous refuse on any parcel of land or premises which
is not owned, rented, leased, or otherwise legally controlled by the person,
party, or firm responsible for the storing or disposing, is prohibited.	C.	The
dumping, disposing, or littering of hazardous refuse onto any premises, except
an authorized Waste Material Processing Plant, licensed Public Dump, or Sanitary
Fill, is prohibited.	D.	The use of a room or suite of rooms for the storage of
hazardous refuse in any occupancy, except as provided for in Chapter 9 of the
L.A.M.C. (Building Code) for the specific purpose is prohibited.	E.	The use of
rubbish chutes for the storage of hazardous refuse is prohibited. Every rubbish
chute shall terminate in a rubbish room or approved noncombustible container
outside of a building of sufficient capacity to receive the entire volume of
hazardous refuse being dumped in the chute.	F.	The use of combustible containers
to receive hazardous refuse from rubbish chutes in lieu of rubbish rooms is
prohibited.	G.	Nothing in this section shall be deemed to waive any of the
requirements in Chapter 6 of the L.A.M.C. Public Works and Property Code, or
regulation of the Department of Public Works which regulates the hours of the
day in which garbage receptacles are permitted on public streets.
