                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RESTRICTED ENTRY IN THE VERY HIGH FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONE. (§ 57.25.21)

  RESTRICTED ENTRY IN THE VERY HIGH FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY ZONE.
	(Title Amended by Ord. No. 176,943, Eff. 10/5/05.)	A.	No person, other than
those expressly exempted, shall enter into or be in the Very High Fire Hazard
Severity Zone except upon public roadways, inhabited areas or established trails
and campsites which are open to the public, when said Zone has been posted
pursuant to Section 57.25.02 of this article.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,943,
Eff. 10/5/05.)	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	This subsection shall not prohibit residents or
owners of private property or their invitees or guests from going to or from
such private property, provided that such invitees or guests have the permission
of the owner or resident to be in or upon such private property.	2.  This
subsection shall not restrict any public officer in the pursuit of his
duty.	B.	No person shall enter into, upon or across any “posted” property
without the permission of the owner.  “Posted property” shall mean any
property in the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone which is marked with a
substantial sign at the entrance, at each corner and at intervals of 600 feet
along the boundary thereof, bearing the words “TRESPASSING AND LOITERING
FORBIDDEN BY LAW” in letters not less than three inches in height.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 176,943, Eff. 10/5/05.)	C.	No person shall travel or trespass upon
any firebreak or fire road.	D.	No person shall operate, drive or park any
motorcycle, motor scooter or other vehicle within the Very High Fire Hazard
Severity Zone, except upon clearly established public or private roads, without
first having secured a Special Permit from the Chief.  (Amended by Ord. No.
176,943, Eff. 10/5/05.)	E.	No unauthorizing person shall park any vehicle so as
to obstruct the entrance to any fire road, fire trail or firebreak.
