                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PORTABLE TANKS, PORTABLE SHIPPING TANKS AND CONTAINERS; CONSTRUCTION AND USE.
(§ 57.30.03)

  PORTABLE TANKS, PORTABLE SHIPPING TANKS AND CONTAINERS; CONSTRUCTION AND
USE.	A.	The design and construction of portable tanks, portable shipping tanks,
and containers for flammable and combustible liquids used or intended to be used
for storage, sales, or shipping shall be as set forth in L.A.F.D. Standard No.
26. Portable tanks, portable shipping tanks and containers that are listed shall
be acceptable to the Chief. Polyethylene containers meeting the requirements of
and containing products authorized by D.O.T. Specification 34, and polyethylene
drums authorized by D.O.T. Exemption Procedures shall be acceptable. Plastic
containers meeting the requirements of ANSI/ASTM D3435-80 and plastic containers
(jerry cans) used for petroleum products within the scope of that specification,
shall be acceptable.	B.	The maximum capacity of portable tanks, portable
shipping tanks and containers shall conform to Table 30-A of this section.TABLE
30-A
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE SIZE OF CONTAINERS, PORTABLE TANKS AND
PORTABLE SHIPPING TANKS FOR FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS  
    
      
        Container
      
      
        Class IA
      
      
        Class IB
      
      
        Class IC
      
      
        Class II
      
      
        Class III*
      
    
    
      
        Glass
      
      
        0
      
      
        1 qt.
      
      
        1 gal.
      
      
        1 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
    
    
      
        Metal or Approved Plastic
      
      
        1 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
    
    
      
        Safety Cans
      
      
        2 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
    
    
      
        Metal Drum
      
      
        60 gal.
      
      
        60 gal.
      
      
        60 gal.
      
      
        60 gal.
      
      
        60 gal.
      
    
    
      
        Polyethylene
      
      
        1 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
      
        5 gal.
      
      
        60 gal.
      
      
        60 gal.
      
    
    
      
        Portable Tank
      
      
        660 gal.
      
      
        660 gal.
      
      
        660 gal.
      
      
        660 gal.
      
      
        660 gal.
      
    
    
      
        Portable Shipping Tank
      
      
        660 gal.
      
      
        660 gal.
      
      
        660 gal.
      
      
        660 gal.
      
      
        660 gal.
      
    
  
	* (Title of Column Six Amended by Ord. No. 169,944, Eff.
8/20/94.)	NOTES:	1.	Class I or II liquids may be stored in glass containers of
not more than one gallon capacity if the required liquid purity (such as
American Chemical Society Analytical Reagent Grade or higher) would be affected
by storage in metal containers or if the liquid would cause excessive corrosion
of the metal container.	2.	Upon the presentation of satisfactory proof that
metal would affect the chemical purity of a flammable or combustible liquid, the
Chief may approve other containers for the particular liquid.
