                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VENTING OF ABOVEGROUND TANKS. (§ 57.31.13)

  VENTING OF ABOVEGROUND TANKS.	A.	Atmospheric storage tanks shall be
adequately vented to prevent the development of vacuum or pressure sufficient to
distort any portion of the tank or to exceed the design pressure, which might
result during filling or emptying, or changes in temperature or atmospheric
pressure. Tanks storing Class I liquids shall be equipped with either venting
devices which shall be normally closed when not under pressure or vacuum or with
an approved flame arrester.	B.	Every aboveground storage tank shall have an
emergency vent which shall consist of some form of construction or device that
will relieve excessive internal pressure caused by exposure fires that might
cause the rupture of the tank shell or bottom. In a vertical tank, this
construction may take the form of a weak roof-to-shell seam. Where entire
dependence for such additional relief is placed upon some device other than a
weak roof-to-shell seam, the total venting capacity of both normal and emergency
vents shall be sufficient to prevent rupture of the shell or bottom of the tank,
if vertical, or of the shell or heads, if horizontal. Such device may be a
self-closing manway cover or one using long bolts that permit the cover to lift
under internal pressure, or an additional or larger relief valve or
valves.	C.	The size of vents shall comply with the requirements of L.A.F.D.
Standard No. 18 or shall be as large as the filling or withdrawal connection,
whichever is larger, but in no case less than one and one-quarter inches nominal
inside diameter.	D.	Tank vents shall be readily accessible for inspection and
shall be properly maintained at all times.
