                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUXILIARY ENGINES FOR TANK VEHICLES. (§ 57.38.16)

  AUXILIARY ENGINES FOR TANK VEHICLES.	Engines, other than those providing
propulsion power, installed or carried upon a tank vehicle transporting Class I
liquids for the purpose of providing power for the operation of pumps or other
devices shall be approved, and shall meet the following requirements:	A.	The
engine air intake shall be equipped with an effective flame arrestor or an air
cleaner having effective flame arrestor characteristics. The flame arrestor or
air cleaner shall be securely installed and capable of preventing emission of
flame from the intake side of the engine in event of backfiring.	B.	The fuel
system shall be so located or constructed as to minimize the fire hazard. If the
fuel tank is located above or immediately adjacent to the engine, suitable
shielding shall be provided to prevent spillage or leakage from the tank or fuel
system from coming in contact with the engine or any parts of the ignition and
exhaust systems. All parts of the fuel system shall be constructed and installed
in a workmanlike manner.	C.	Pumps and other appurtenances carrying or containing
flammable liquids shall be so located in relation to the engine that spillage or
leakage from such parts shall be prevented from coming in contact with the
engine or any parts of the ignition and exhaust system, or adequate shielding
shall be provided to attain the same purpose. The engine cooling fan shall be so
positioned, rotated, or shielded as to minimize the possibility of drawing
flammable vapors toward the engine.	D.	When the engine is located in a position
where spillage from the cargo tank, its appurtenances, or from side racks might
constitute a hazard, suitable shielding shall be provided to prevent such
spillage from contacting the engine or engine exhaust system. Shielding shall be
constructed in a manner that will cause spillage to drain away from the vicinity
of the engine.	E.	Where the engine is carried within an enclosed space, adequate
provision shall be made for air circulation at all times in order to prevent the
accumulation of explosive vapors and to avoid overheating.	F.	The exhaust system
shall be securely constructed, installed, and free from leaks. The exhaust line
and muffler shall have adequate clearance from combustible materials, and the
exhaust gases shall be discharged at a location which will not constitute a
hazard. When engines are carried in enclosed spaces, the exhaust gases shall be
discharged outside of each such enclosed space.
	G.	The ignition wiring shall be securely installed with firm connections. Spark
plug and all other terminals shall be suitably insulated to prevent sparking in
event of contact with conductive materials. The ignition switch shall be of the
enclosed type.
