                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INSTALLATION OF UNDERGROUND TANKS. (§ 57.31.42)

  INSTALLATION OF UNDERGROUND TANKS.	A.	Excavations shall be made with proper
precautions for existing foundations and/or load bearing supports.	B.	Tanks
shall be set on a firm foundation of at least 12 inches of noncorrosive inert
backfill material such as clean sand or pea gravel well tamped in place on the
tops, sides, and ends of tanks.	C.	Tanks located in protected areas where they
are not, and will never be, subjected to vehicular or other superimposed loads
may be installed with a cover of not less than two feet of earth when approved
by the Chief.	D.	Tanks located where subjected to traffic shall be installed at
least three feet below the lowest grade or shall be covered with at least 18
inches of noncorrosive inert backfill material such as clean sand or pea gravel
well tamped in place plus six inches of reinforced concrete slab that extends
one foot beyond the extremity of the tank and is designed to sustain the
vehicular and other superimposed loads in accordance with Chapter 9 of the
L.A.M.C. (Building Code).	E.	The fill box or opening shall be safeguarded
against spills or unauthorized release where asphaltic or concrete paving is not
provided.	F.	Underground tanks which have a remote fill shall be equipped with
automatic closing devices installed in the fill line to prevent filling the tank
more than 95 percent. In addition to such closing device, there shall be an
audible alarm set at 90 percent capacity. The remote fill and alarm shall be
labeled and located in a manner approved by the Chief.	G.	All new underground
tank installations shall be provided with approved overfill prevention
equipment.  (Added by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)
