                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LABELS. (§ 57.30.04)

  LABELS.	on portable tanks and containers of flammable or combustible liquids
shall conform to the provisions of this section.	A.	All portable tanks and
containers of flammable liquids at the point of final filling or labeling, and
except as indicated in Subsection B of this section, shall be conspicuously
labeled in easily legible type which is in contrast by typography, layout, or
color with other printed matter on the label. Such type shall be of a size not
smaller than any other printing on the label except the brand name.	B.	Such
labeling will not be required under the following conditions:	1.	When the
portable tank or container bears labels or markings in accordance with the
requirements of the D.O.T.	2.	When the portable tank or container bears labels
or markings in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Hazardous
Substance Labeling Act as contained in Part 1500, Subchapter C, Chapter II,
Title 16, of the Code of Federal Regulations.	3.	When the portable tank or
container bears labels or markings in accordance with the requirements of the
applicable provisions of the California Hazardous Substance Labeling Act as
contained in Chapter 13, Division 22, of the California Health and Safety
Code.	4.	Nonpressurized containers smaller than four ounces capacity may not
require labeling.	5.	Medicines, beverages, foodstuffs, and cosmetics in
containers not exceeding 64 fluid ounces capacity and packaged in a manner
approved by the Chief will not require labeling.	C.	The following wording shall
be used:	1.	Class I Liquids—DANGER—FLAMMABLE! KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT AND OPEN
FLAME.	2.	Class II or III Liquids—CAUTION—COMBUSTIBLE!
