                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN GROUP H-1, H-2, AND H-3
OCCUPANCIES. (§ 57.30.40)

  STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN GROUP H-1, H-2, AND H-3
OCCUPANCIES.	The provisions of this section shall apply to the storage of
flammable or combustible liquids in Group H-1, H-2, and H-3 Occupancies.	A.	The
total quantity of flammable or combustible liquids stored shall conform to the
requirements of Table 30-C, except as may be specified on the Permit required by
Section 57.30.05.	B.	Containers in piles shall be separated by pallets or
dunnage, where necessary to provide stability and to prevent excessive stress on
container walls.	C.	The maximum capacity, height, and width of every pile shall
conform to the requirements of Table 30-C in addition to the minimum
requirements set forth in this subsection.	1.	Every pile shall be kept at least
three feet below the lowest beam, chord, girder, or other obstructions,
sprinkler deflectors, or discharge orifices of water spray, or other fire
extinguishing systems.	2.	Every pile shall be separated from every other pile by
side aisles at least four feet wide.	3.	Wall aisles at least three feet wide
shall be provided where necessary, for reasons of access through doors, windows,
access to interior standpipe hose, sprinkler control valves, or other installed
fire protection equipment.	4.	When two or more classes of flammable and/or
combustible liquids are stored in a single pile, the maximum quantity and height
permitted in that pile shall be limited to the most hazardous class.	5.	Every
H-1, H-2, or H-3 Occupancy used to store flammable and/or combustible liquids
shall have main aisles a minimum of eight feet in width which serve all required
exits from the building. Main aisles shall be within 50 feet of all storage of
flammable and/or combustible liquids.	D.	Limited amounts of packing materials,
empty pallets, and other combustible commodities essential for the processing of
Class I, II, or III liquids may be stored in the same area provided there is a
minimum separation of eight feet between the liquid storage and combustible
materials.
