                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FUELING AND DEFUELING. (§ 57.38.27)

  FUELING AND DEFUELING.	A.	During fuel transfer operations, a qualified person
shall be in control of each transfer nozzle to shut off or otherwise control the
flow of fuel from the time fueling operations are begun until they are
completed.	B.	Bonding and Grounding:  (Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff.
11/16/91.)	1.	Every aircraft fuel servicing tank vehicle shall be electrically
bonded to the aircraft being fueled or defueled, and either the aircraft fuel
servicing tank vehicle or the aircraft shall be adequately grounded in an
approved manner.  A drag chain or flexible ground conductor shall not be deemed
to fulfill the requirements of this section for grounding during fuel
transfer.	EXCEPTION:	When refueling fixed wing aircraft at a rate not over 25
gpm using hose of not less than 1-1/4&#038;″ nominal diameter, only bonding
shall be required.	2.	Overwing fueling transfer nozzles shall be equipped with
approved bonding conductors which shall be clipped or otherwise positively
engaged with the bonding attachment provided on the aircraft adjacent to the
fuel tank cap.	3.	All bonding and ground connections required by this section
shall be made prior to any fuel transfer and shall not be disconnected until
fuel transfer operations are completed.	C.	Fuel transfer nozzles shall not be
held in the open position by any device other than by direct hand pressure of
the operator.	D.	Defueling: The transfer of fuel from an aircraft to a tank
vehicle through a hose shall be done in compliance with all requirements which
apply to the fueling of an aircraft. In addition, each operator shall establish
procedures to prevent the overfilling of the tank vehicle.
