                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE AND/OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN CONTAINERS OUTSIDE OF
BUILDINGS. (§ 57.30.50)

  STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE AND/OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN CONTAINERS OUTSIDE OF
BUILDINGS.	The storage of flammable and/or combustible liquids in containers
outside of buildings shall comply with the provisions of this section and Table
30-D.TABLE 30-D
OUTDOOR CONTAINER STORAGE  
    
      
        Class of Liquid
      
      
        Maximum Per Pile 
        (Gallons) 
        (See Note 1)
      
      
        Height 
        (ft.)
      
      
        Distance Between Piles 
        (See Note 2)
      
      
        Distance to Property Line That Can Be Built Upon 
        (See Notes 3 and 4)
      
      
        Distance Street, Alley or Public Way 
        (See Note 4)
      
    
    
      
        IA
      
      
        1,100
      
      
        10
      
      
        5 ft.
      
      
        50 ft.
      
      
        10 ft.
      
    
    
      
        IB
      
      
        2,200
      
      
        12
      
      
        5 ft.
      
      
        50 ft.
      
      
        10 ft.
      
    
    
      
        IC
      
      
        4,400
      
      
        12
      
      
        5 ft.
      
      
        50 ft.
      
      
        10 ft.
      
    
    
      
        II
      
      
        8,800
      
      
        12
      
      
        5 ft.
      
      
        25 ft.
      
      
        5 ft.
      
    
    
      
        III
      
      
        22,000
      
      
        15
      
      
        5 ft.
      
      
        10 ft.
      
      
        5 ft.
      
    
  
	NOTES:	1.	Piles containing multiple classes of material shall be limited to the
maximum gallonage of the most hazardous class in the pile.	2.	A 20-foot access
road shall be provided within 150 feet of each container to permit approach of
Fire Department apparatus.	3.	If adjoining property is under the same management
or presents no exposures distances to property line that can be built upon may
be reduced by no more than 50 percent.	4.	When the total quantity stored does
not exceed 50 percent of the maximum pile, the distances in column five and six
may be reduced 50 percent, but never any distance be reduced to less than five
feet.	5.	When total quantity stored does not exceed 50 percent of the maximum
per pile, the distance to property line may be reduced to a minimum of 10 feet
in column five provided a barrier wall is installed which is at least six feet
high, six inches thick, constructed of solid reinforced concrete or
masonry.	A.	A maximum of 1,100 gallons of flammable and/or combustible liquids
in closed containers may be located adjacent to buildings located on the same
premises and under the same management, provided that:	1.	The building is a
one-story building devoted principally to handling and storing of flammable or
combustible liquids, or building has two-hour fire-resistive exterior walls with
no opening within 10 feet of such storage.	2.	Where quantity stored exceeds
1,100 gallons, or the provisions of Subsection A. 1. of this section cannot be
met, a minimum distance in accordance with Table 30-D, column five (Distance to
Property Line That Can Be Built Upon) shall be maintained between the building
and the nearest container or portable tank.	B.	The quantity of liquids stored
adjacent to a building protected in accordance with Subsection A.1. of this
section may exceed 1,100    gallons, provided the maximum quantity per pile
does not exceed 1,100 gallons and each pile is separated by 10 feet minimum
clear space along the common wall.	C.	The storage area shall be graded in a
manner to divert possible spills away from buildings or other exposures or shall
be surrounded by a curb at least six inches high. Where curbs are used,
provisions shall be made for draining accumulations of ground or rain water or
spills of flammable or combustible liquids. Drains shall terminate at a safe
location and shall be accessible to operation under fire conditions.	D.	The
storage area shall be protected against tampering and trespassing where
necessary to afford proper security. The area shall be maintained free of weeds,
debris, and other combustible material not necessary to the storage.
