                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE ESCAPES. (§ 57.33.14)

  FIRE ESCAPES.	A.	No person shall attach or fasten, or cause to be fastened,
to any part of any fire escape, any rope, wire cable or similar device, except
approved standard equipment, nor shall any person store or maintain anything
upon any part of any fire escape.	B.	Access to fire escapes shall be any one of
the following:	1.	Through a room between the corridor and the fire escape if the
door to the room is openable from the corridor side without the use of a key,
tool, or special knowledge or effort, or by an alternate method of access, as
determined by the Chief.	2.	By a door openable to a fire escape from the
interior without the use of a key, tool, or special knowledge or effort, as
determined by the Chief.	3.	By a window openable from the interior without the
use of a key,  tool, or special knowledge or effort, as determined by the
Chief. Such window shall have a minimum dimension of 29 inches when open. The
sill shall be not more than 30 inches above the floor and landing.	C.	Protection
of Exterior Openings:  When a fire escape is designated as one of the required
exits from a building, the openings onto the fire escape landing and other
openings within five feet horizontally of the landing shall be protected in a
manner acceptable to the Chief.	D.	Any person who violates this section shall
be  punishable by at least a mandatory minimum fine of $100.00, up to and not
exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not
more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person
shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or portion
thereof, during which a violation of any provision of this section is committed,
continued, or permitted by such person and shall be punishable accordingly. 
(Added by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)
