                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 57.31.02)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	The following words and phrases
whenever used in this division shall be defined as follows:	Aboveground Tank –
Any atmospheric tank installed on or above the surface of the ground and used
for the storage, handling, or processing of a hazardous substance.	Hazardous
Substance – All of the following liquid, solid, and gaseous substances, unless
the State Department of Health Services in consultation with the State Water
Resources Control Board, determines the substance could not adversely affect the
quality of Waters of the State:	1.	Substances on the list prepared by the
Director of the Department of Industrial Relations pursuant to Section 6382 of
the Labor Code;	2.	Hazardous substances, as defined in Section 25316 of the
Health and Safety Code;	3.	Any substance or material which is classified as a
Class I, II or IIIA liquid.	Unauthorized Release – Any emission or escape of
any hazardous substance which does not conform to the provisions of this
division, unless such release is in accordance with the release regulations of
the South Coast Air Quality Management District and California Air Resources
Board, with a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, or
with waste discharge requirements established by a Regional Water Quality
Control Board.	Underground Tank or Underground Storage Tank – Any atmospheric
tank which is partially or entirely below the surface of the ground and is used
to store or process a hazardous substance including any connected piping and
appurtenances.
