                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MARKINGS ON TANK VEHICLES. (§ 57.38.04)

  MARKINGS ON TANK VEHICLES.	A.	Warning Placards: Unless otherwise specifically
provided for by this division, or otherwise specifically provided for by State
Law or Regulations promulgated thereunder, the transportation of flammable or
combustible liquids, including the posting of warning placards, shall comply
with all requirements of L.A.F.D. Standard No. 25. Such requirements shall be
applicable to both highway and non-highway use vehicles.	B.	California Highway
Patrol Cargo Tank Certification Sticker: All cargo tanks used for the
transportation of flammable or combustible liquids shall have a Cargo Tank
Certification Sticker issued by the California Highway Patrol. The sticker shall
be plainly affixed to the cargo tank.	EXCEPTION:
	Tank vehicles which are not operated on public streets and highways.	C.	Metal
Identification Plate: All cargo tanks carrying flammable and combustible liquids
shall have the manufacturer’s metal identification plate located on the
right-hand side near the front, readily accessible for inspection. This plate
shall be permanently affixed to a portion of the tank structure by soldering,
brazing, welding, or other equally permanent means. It shall be marked by
legible stamping, embossing, or other means of forming letters not less than
1/4” high into or on the metal of the plate itself. The following information
listed below shall be on the plate:	a.	Manufacturer’s
name.	b.	Manufacturer’s serial number.	c.	Date of manufacture.	d.	Capacity of
tank shell in U.S. gallons. If compartmented, capacity of each
compartment.	e.	Design pressure of tank (18 psia to 40 psia).	f.	Test pressure
of tank (18 psia to 40 psia).	g.	Thickness of head and material.	h.	Thickness of
shell and material. 	i.	Specification Identification D.O.T. MC306, MC307 or
MC312.
