                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS WITHIN A HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROOM
– WITH DISPENSING. (§ 57.30.31)

  STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS WITHIN A HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ROOM
– WITH DISPENSING.	The provisions of this section shall apply to the storage
of flammable or combustible liquids in closed containers within a Hazardous
Materials Room and when containers are opened within the room there is a
transfer of flammable and combustible liquids from one container to another
within the room.	A.	Individual containers shall not exceed a capacity of 60
gallons except in Hazardous Materials Rooms that are protected by an automatic
fire extinguishing system.	B.	Drums not in use shall be stored in an upright
position. Drums shall not be stacked more than one drum high.	C.	Dispensing from
metal drums shall be by means of a device draining from the top of the drum or
by means of a listed self-closing disposing device with metal drum on its
side.	D.	Each drum from which there is dispensing shall be equipped with an
approved pressure-vacuum relief device. The approved pressure-vacuum relief
device may be a part of the withdrawal pump or device, or it may be a separate
device.	E.	Not more than two gallons of flammable and/or combustible liquids per
square foot of floor area shall be stored in any Hazardous Materials Room not
equipped with an approved automatic fire extinguishing system.	F.	Not more than
four gallons of flammable and/or combustible liquids per square foot of floor
area shall be stored in any Hazardous Materials Room equipped with an approved
automatic fire extinguishing system.	G.	If a Hazardous Materials Room is used
exclusively for the storage of combustible liquids, the amounts set forth in
Subsections E and F may be doubled.
