                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PANIC HARDWARE. (§ 57.33.10)

  PANIC HARDWARE.	A.	(Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)  Exit doors
from any Group A or E Occupancy having an occupant load of 50 or more shall not
be provided with a latch or lock unless it is panic hardware.	EXCEPTION:	In
Group A Occupancies or portions thereof, having an occupant load of less than
300, panic hardware may be omitted from the main exit when the main exit
consists of a single door or pair of doors.  A key locking device may be used
in lieu of panic hardware, provided there is a readily visible metallic sign
adjacent to the doorway stating, “THIS DOOR MUST REMAIN UNLOCKED WHENEVER THE
PUBLIC IS PRESENT.”  The sign shall be in letters not less than one inch high
on a contrasting background.  When unlocked, the door must be free to swing
without operation of any latching device.  Flush, edge, surface bolts, or any
other type of device that may be used to restrain the doors other than by
operation of the locking device are prohibited.  The use of this exception may
be revoked at any time by the Chief.	B.	Installation of   Only panic hardware
approved and listed by the State Fire Marshal shall be installed in accordance
with Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code).	C.	Panic hardware shall be
installed not less than 30 inches nor more than 44 inches above the floor.
Maximum effort to operate doors shall not exceed eight and one-half pounds for
exterior doors and five pounds for interior doors, such pull or push effort
being applied at right angles to hinged doors. When fire doors are required the
maximum effort to operate the door may be increased not to exceed 15 pounds.
