                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DETERMINATION OF OCCUPANT LOAD. (§ 57.33.02)

  DETERMINATION OF OCCUPANT LOAD.	A.	The Chief shall determine the maximum
occupant load permitted for any assembly occupancy, or any portion of other
occupancies used for assembly purposes, based upon the provisions of this
division. The maximum occupant load shall not exceed the maximum occupant load
designated in the Certificate of Occupancy issued by the Department of Building
and Safety, or in the absence of such certificate, the maximum occupant load
approved by the Chief.	B.	The occupant load permitted in any place of assemblage
shall be determined by dividing the floor area assigned to that occupancy by the
occupant load factor (square feet per occupant) as set forth in Table No.
33-A.	EXCEPTION:	The Chief may increase the occupant load of the assembly areas
above that specified in Table No. 33-A, provided the required exit width and
aisles are provided for the increased occupant load.	C.	In determining the
occupant load, all portions of a building shall be presumed to be occupied at
the same time.	D.	For buildings or portions thereof which have more than one
occupancy, the occupant load shall be determined for each
use.	EXCEPTION:	Accessory use areas which ordinarily are used only by persons
who occupy the main areas of an occupancy shall be provided with exits as though
they are completely occupied, but their occupant load need not be included in
computing the total occupant load of the building.	E.	The occupant load for
buildings or areas containing two or more occupancies shall be determined by
adding the occupant loads of the various occupancies as computed in accordance
with this division.	F.	To determine occupant load and exit requirements, floor
plans shall be submitted to the Chief for the proposed occupancy. Such plans
shall be drawn to scale and shall show all seats, tables, furnishings,
equipment, and all aisles, cross aisles, and exit doorways in accordance with
this division. An approved floor plan for the occupancy shall be on the premises
and available for inspection by the Chief. The approval date n the floor plan
shall coincide with the approval date on the posted occupant load sign.	G.	The
number of seats provided in any assembly occupancy or portion thereof shall not
exceed the maximum occupant load as determined by the Chief.	H.	Fixed
Seating:	1.	For areas having fixed seats and aisles, the occupant load shall be
determined by the number of fixed seats installed. The required width of aisles
serving fixed seats shall not be used for any other purpose.	2.	For areas having
fixed benches or pews, the occupant load shall be based on one person for each
18 inches of bench or pew length, or major portion thereof.	3.	Where booths are
used in dining or drinking areas, the occupant load shall be based on one person
for each 24 inches of booth length or major portion thereof. Measurement shall
be taken at the front leading edge of the seat.	4.	At counters or bars in dining
or drinking areas, the occupant load shall be based on one person for each 24
inches of counter or bar length, or major portion thereof.
