                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOCATION OF ABOVEGROUND TANKS. (§ 57.31.08)

  LOCATION OF ABOVEGROUND TANKS.	A.	Vertical cone roof tanks constructed with a
weak roof-to-shell seam shall be separated from buildings and property lines
which are or can be built upon, including the opposite side of a public way, by
a distance equal to the tank diameter, except that such distance shall not be
less than 10 feet. Distance from streets, alleys, or public ways shall be equal
to one-third of the tank diameter, except that such distance shall not be less
than five feet.	B.	Floating roof tanks and tanks for the storage of Class I, II,
or IIIA liquids shall be separated from buildings and property lines which are
or can be built upon, including the opposite side of a public way, by a distance
equal to one-half the tank diameter, except that such distance shall not be less
than five feet. Distance from streets, alleys, or public ways shall be equal to
one-sixth of the tank diameters, except that such distance shall not be less
than five feet.	C.	Except as provided in Subsections A or B of this section,
every aboveground tank shall be located in accordance with Table 31-A.	D.	The
distances set forth in Subsections A and C of this section may be reduced 50
percent but not less than five feet whenever all of the tanks within any one
diked area or drainage area are used exclusively for the storage of Class IIIB
liquids.	E.	The distances set forth in all subsections of this section shall be
doubled for tanks storing flammable or combustible liquids having boilover
characteristics.	F.	The Chief may require additional spacing for tanks storing
Class I, II, or IIIA liquids stored at temperatures exceeding 212°F.	G.	Every
aboveground tank for the storage of unstable liquids shall be located as
required by the Chief, but such distances shall not be less than 25 feet from
the property line of any property which has a building thereon, from the nearest
side of any public way or from the nearest side of any building.	H.	When tanks
are installed in three or more rows, in irregular pattern, or of unusual heights
in proportion to the diameter of the tank, greater spacing or other protection
shall be provided so that all tanks are accessible for fire fighting
purposes.TABLE 31-A
SEPARATION FOR TANKS OUTSIDE OF BUILDINGS  
    
      
        Capacity of Tank in Gallons
      
      
        Minimum Distance From Property Lines Which May Be Built Upon, Including
the Opposite Side of a Public Way, in feet
      
      
        Minimum Distance From the Nearest Side of Any Public Way (Street, Alley,
etc.) or Nearest Building, in feet
      
    
    
      
        275 or Less
      
      
        5
      
      
        5
      
    
    
      
        276 to 750
      
      
        10
      
      
        5
      
    
    
      
        751 to 12,000
      
      
        15
      
      
        5
      
    
    
      
        12,001 to 30,000
      
      
        20
      
      
        5
      
    
    
      
        30,001 to 50,000
      
      
        30
      
      
        10
      
    
    
      
        50,001 to 100,000
      
      
        50
      
      
        15
      
    
    
      
        100,001 to 500,000
      
      
        80
      
      
        25
      
    
    
      
        500,001 to 1,000,000
      
      
        100
      
      
        35
      
    
    
      
        1,000,001 to 2,000,000
      
      
        135
      
      
        45
      
    
    
      
        2,000,001 to 3,000,000
      
      
        165
      
      
        55
      
    
    
      
        More Than 3,000,000
      
      
        175
      
      
        60
