                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TANKS INSIDE BUILDINGS. (§ 57.31.18)

  TANKS INSIDE BUILDINGS.	In addition to the general requirements set forth in
this division, aboveground tanks located inside buildings shall conform to the
following:	A.	Tanks located inside buildings shall be limited to 500 gallons
individual capacity unless additional capacity is approved by the Chief.	B.	No
tank shall be located, installed, maintained, or used inside any building except
in an approved location and in conformance with the following
specifications:	1.	No tank shall be located within five feet of combustible
materials nor within five feet of any exit.	2.	Tanks with not more than 500
gallons of Class II or III liquids may be installed below grade in basements of
buildings if located in a fire-resistive room provided with automatic fire
protection and an approved detection system. Such room shall be capable of
containing 100 percent of the total capacity of all tanks. Tanks shall be
installed in compliance with the specifications for aboveground tanks contained
in L.A.F.D. Standard No. 37.	3.	Vapors from normal and emergency vents of tanks
within buildings shall be exhausted at a safe location outside the
building.	4.	The use of weak roof seams on tanks within buildings is
prohibited.	C.	Every tank exceeding 10 square feet of exposed surface area shall
be equipped with a tight-fitting cover, or an approved automatic closing cover,
or an approved local ventilation system. All covers shall be kept tightly in
place at all times other than during periods of filling, withdrawal of contents,
or cleaning.	D.	All open top tanks containing flammable or combustible liquids
and exceeding 150 gallons capacity or 10 square feet surface area shall be
provided with approved drains, curbs, overflow pipes, and similar protection in
accordance with the provisions in Division 81 of this article.	E.	Connections to
horizontal tanks shall be through the top. Fill, return, and similar pipes shall
be extended below the level of the suction pipe intake or shall be trapped
inside the tank in a manner to prohibit the escape of vapors.	F.	Connections to
vertical tanks shall be through the top wherever practicable, and otherwise
through the side.	G.	Atmospheric tanks containing flammable or combustible
liquids shall also be subject to the following conditions:	1.	The inlet of the
fill pipe shall be located outside of the building and not less than five feet
from any building openings. The fill pipe shall terminate within six inches of
the bottom of the tank.	2.	Tanks located in buildings, under buildings, or where
the tank location is not visible from the fill opening, shall be equipped with
closing devices installed in the fill line in a manner to prevent filling the
tank to more than 95 percent capacity. In addition to such closing device, there
shall be an audible alarm at the fill opening set to operate automatically when
the tank reaches 90 percent of capacity.	EXCEPTION:	Tanks equipped with an
overflow pipe at least one pipe size larger than the fill pipe discharging to an
approved location.	3.	Withdrawal connections through the side of a tank below
the liquid level shall be equipped with an automatic closing heat-actuated
device.	EXCEPTION:	Engine fuel tanks installed in conformance with Section
57.31.22 of this article are exempt from the requirements of this subsection.
