                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SKID TANKS. (§ 57.41.33)

  SKID TANKS.	Portable containers with steel runners or skids attached may be
used as storage vessels for flammable materials in connection with construction
projects, the drilling of oil wells, or similar uses, provided the total
volumetric capacity of such containers does not exceed 2275 gallons or two
containers in number for any one location. The temporary installation,
maintenance, and use of such vessels shall require a Special Permit for a period
not to exceed 180 days and the installation shall be in accordance with the
following:	A.	Skid tanks shall be located and maintained outside any building
and in accordance with the provisions of Table 42-A relative to the distance
required between storage vessels and buildings, property lines, streets, pits,
or basements. For the purpose of this section, an oil well cellar shall not be
deemed to be a pit. At multiple well sites for drilling or producing oil or gas,
these spacing requirements may be modified, as approved by the Chief, when
limitations of ground area or the arrangement of facilities makes strict
compliance impractical.	B.	Such portable containers shall be located on firm
earth capable of bearing the weight of the vessel when fully loaded, or pads of
wood, concrete or masonry shall be provided to adequately secure and support the
container. The bottom of the skids shall be not less than two inches nor more
than 12 inches below the outside bottom of the vessel. Skids or lugs for
attachment of skids shall be secured to the vessel in accordance with the
standard under which the vessel is designed and built to withstand loading in
any direction equal to four times the weight of the vessel and attachments when
filled to the maximum permissible loaded weight equal to not less than 60
percent of the water weight of the vessel.	C.	Where impact by trucks, trailers,
or other mechanical equipment is possible or likely, skid tanks being used as
storage vessels shall be protected by suitable fences or posts and railings.
When such vessels are in a location where they may be tampered with by
unauthorized persons, they shall be surrounded by a rugged steel wire fence or
equivalent protection.	D.	Fittings on every skid tank shall be in a recessed
enclosure, or if on the shell or head, fittings shall be adequately guarded by a
heavy steel guard.	E.	Piping connections to any skid tank shall be sufficiently
flexible to minimize the possibility of any breakage or leakage of connections
if the vessel settles, moves, or is otherwise displaced.	F.	Skid tanks shall not
be transported while containing any Liquefied Flammable Gas, except as provided
in Division 44 of this article.
