                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOCATION OF MANIFOLDS. (§ 57.41.22)

  LOCATION OF MANIFOLDS.	The provisions of this section shall only apply to
manifolds for containers of flammable or toxic materials. ‘Capacity’ refers
to the total aggregate capacity of all containers which may be connected to the
supply side of the manifold.	A.	Every manifold within a building having a
capacity exceeding the amounts shown in Table 41-A, but not exceeding two times
the amounts shown in Table 41-A, shall be located in a Hazardous Materials Room
or as provided in Subsection C of this section.	B.	Every manifold within a
building, having a capacity in excess of two times the amounts shown in Table
41-A shall be located in a Hazardous Materials Room having no openings to other
portions of the building, or as provided in Subsection C of this section.	C.	A
manifold for flammable materials located within a building and having a capacity
exceeding the amounts shown in Table 41-A shall be located in an H-1
Occupancy.	D.	Every fixed manifold outside of any building shall be located not
less than ten feet from buildings, property lines which may be built upon,
streets, alleys, or public ways.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Manifolds may be located
adjacent to buildings having walls or approved barriers which are noncombustible
or which have a fire-resistive rating of not less than one hour.	2.	Manifolds
may be erected closer than ten feet to streets, alleys or public ways provided
they are separated therefrom by approved barrier walls.	E.	Every fixed manifold
entirely outside of any building shall be located not less than ten feet from
any opening into any building.
