                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOCATION OF ABOVEGROUND STORAGE IN STATIONARY CONTAINERS. (§ 57.42.10)

  LOCATION OF ABOVEGROUND STORAGE IN STATIONARY CONTAINERS.	Unless otherwise
provided in this article, stationary containers located aboveground and used for
storage purposes shall be located in accordance with this section.	A.	Pressure
vessels shall be located outside of buildings.	B.	Stationary containers, either
singly or in groups and having an aggregate capacity not exceeding 200,000
gallons, shall be separated from buildings, adjacent property lines which may be
built upon, streets, alleys, and public ways in accordance with Table
42-A.	C.	Stationary containers, either singly or in groups and having an
aggregate capacity in excess of 200,000 gallons, shall be separated from
buildings, adjacent property lines which may be built upon, streets, alleys, and
public ways by distances which shall be determined in each individual case by
the Chief with due regard for congestion, individual container capacity, total
aggregate storage, and fire protection equipment. In no case shall the distance
be less than those set forth in Table 42-A for stationary containers having a
capacity of 200,000 gallons.
  
    
      
        TABLE 42-A
        MINIMUM SEPARATIONS FOR STATIONARY CONTAINERS
      
    
    
      
        Volumetric Capacity In Gallons
      
      
        Streets, Alleys, and Public Ways
      
      
        Buildings1 and Adjacent Property Lines Which may Be Built Upon, and the
Opposite Side of Streets, Alleys, and Public Ways.
      
    
    
      
        Not More Than
      
      
        
      
      
        10 Feet
      
      
        PROTECTED2
      
      
        UNPROTECTED
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        575 Gallons3
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        10 Feet
      
      
        25 Feet
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        More Than
      
      
        But Not Over
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        575
      
      
        2,000
      
      
        25 Feet4    
      
      
        25 Feet4    
      
      
        50 Feet     
      
    
    
      
        2,000
      
      
        30,000
      
      
        37.5 Feet     
      
      
        50 Feet     
      
      
        75 Feet     
      
    
    
      
        30,000
      
      
        70,000
      
      
        50 Feet     
      
      
        75 Feet     
      
      
        100 Feet     
      
    
    
      
        70,000
      
      
        90,000
      
      
        75 Feet     
      
      
        100 Feet     
      
      
        150 Feet     
      
    
    
      
        90,000
      
      
        200,000
      
      
        100 Feet     
      
      
        150 Feet     
      
      
        200 Feet     
      
    
  
	NOTES TO TABLE 42-A:	1.	This separation requirement shall not apply to
buildings used exclusively for processing, vaporization, or handling of stored
material.	2.	Protected: The distances stated apply when a stationary container
or group of stationary containers are protected with an approved barrier wall,
automatic fire extinguishing system, or insulation. Fire protection equipment or
insulation shall be individually approved by the Chief. A single stationary
container of 575 gallons or less water capacity may be located 10 feet from a
building, provided the building is constructed of solid concrete or masonry
materials and there are no openings in the building within 25 feet of the
stationary container.	3.	If the aggregate water capacity of a multi-container
installation at a consumer site is greater than 575 gallons, the minimum
distance shall comply with the appropriate portion of this Table, applying the
aggregate capacity rather than the capacity per stationary container. If more
than one installation is made, each installation shall be separated from another
installation by at least 25 feet. Minimum distances between aboveground
stationary containers shall not be applied to such installations.	4.	The above
distance requirements may be reduced to not less than ten feet for a protected,
or 25 feet for an unprotected single container of 1,200 gallons water capacity
or less, providing such a container is at least 25 feet from any other container
of more than 125 gallons water capacity.
