                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COLLISION BARRIERS AND SECURITY FENCES. (§ 57.42.16)

  COLLISION BARRIERS AND SECURITY FENCES.	A.	A collision barrier constructed
entirely of iron, steel, or concrete shall be installed to surround stationary
containers and shall provide for a minimum clearance of five feet from the outer
edge of containers and their vaporizing equipment. The posts shall be five feet
in length with two feet below ground and encased in concrete. The posts shall be
no less than four inches in diameter and filled with concrete. The posts shall
be spaced a maximum of five feet apart with no openings for access greater than
two feet wide. The upright posts shall be equipped with two horizontal guard
rails of two-inch diameter iron pipe installed at a height of 15 inches and 30
inches, respectively, above grade. The upright posts and guard rails shall be
the equivalent strength of schedule 40 iron pipe. When barrier walls are used as
collision protection, they shall be made of solid concrete or concrete block
construction at least eight inches wide and solidly filled with concrete and
steel reinforcing bar in accordance with Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building
Code) for retaining walls. Where heavy vehicular traffic presents a greater
hazard due to size and weight, the required size of the upright posts may be
increased to that of six-inch schedule 40 iron pipe.	B.	Containers, vaporizing
equipment, and piping in connection therewith shall be enclosed by a six foot
noncombustible fence located not less than five feet from such container and
vaporizing equipment. Posts for such fence shall be set in concrete spaced not
more than 10 feet apart with corner posts firmly braced. Openings in such fence
shall be protected with a substantial iron or steel gate not less than six feet
in height.	C.	The enclosure formed by such collision and security fence shall be
maintained free of all material not related to the operation of the enclosed
installation.	D.	The collision fence and the security fence may be constructed
as one unit if the design of such a fence will adequately serve both purposes
and is located to provide the minimum clearance required for a collision
fence.	E.	The Chief may approve the omission of the collision fence, the
security fence or both, or portions thereof, where, by such omission the
container and appurtenances will not be exposed to damage from moving vehicles
or other heavy objects or tampering by unauthorized persons. The terms of any
such approval shall be in writing and shall become a condition of the permit
authorizing the installation, maintenance, and use of such container and
appurtenances.
