                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MAINTENANCE AND HOUSEKEEPING. (§ 57.57.04)

  MAINTENANCE AND HOUSEKEEPING.	A.	Material-Handling Equipment: Motorized
material-handling equipment shall be of a type designed for use in accordance
with the hazards of the location in which it is used in compliance with L.A.F.D.
Standard No. 49.  It shall be serviced, repaired, and stored in other than
Single Storage Areas.	B.	Related Activities: An area used for non-storage
activities shall be separated from the Storage Area by a minimum distance of 10
feet when non-storage activities include:	1.	Repairing of crates, boxes, and
other containers.	2.	Repacking operations.	C.	Smoking Restrictions: Smoking
shall be prohibited in storage areas except in designated locations.  Such
location shall be equipped with receptacles for smoking refuse.  “NO
SMOKING” and “SMOKING PROHIBITED” signs shall be posted where
appropriate.  The owner, operator, or person in charge or control shall enforce
all smoking restrictions in storage areas.	D.	Aisle Maintenance:	1.	Aisles and
entrances shall be kept free of storage and equipment not being handled or
operated.	2.	Storage piling and blocking shall be maintained to prevent
materials from accidentally falling into aisles or clearance areas.	3.	Stored
materials shall not be piled so as to create overhanging or bridging of Main
Aisles or Side Aisles.	4.	Hazardous refuse shall be removed from aisles and
properly stored or disposed of in accordance with Division 21 of this
article.	E.	Welding, Cutting, and Heating:	1.	Welding or cutting operations
within a storage facility shall be regulated in accordance with Division 20 of
this article.	2.	Heating appliances for Storage Areas shall be regulated in
accordance with Division 20 of this article.
