                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIREWORKS. (§ 57.55.01)

  FIREWORKS.	A.	(Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)  It shall be
unlawful for any person to use, give, possess, sell, or discharge any
fireworks.	EXCEPTION:	Patriotic, civic, and religious organizations may conduct
fireworks displays under permit by the Chief and in accordance with the
provisions of the Health and Safety Code of the State of California.	Every
display shall be under the control and supervision of a Pyrotechnic Operator
licensed by the State Fire Marshal and shall be conducted under conditions as
required by the Chief.  The fireworks in public displays shall be located,
discharged and of such character so as not to be hazardous to persons or
property.	B.	may be shipped, delivered or sold for delivery, to points outside
this City where the sale or use thereof is lawful, by any wholesaler, retailer,
jobber, warehousemen, or a manufacturer, or manufactured for such sale or
distribution only, or kept in storage in a safe and secure place pending the
lawful disposal thereof; but no fireworks shall be handled, manufactured or
stored hereunder without the express written approval of the Chief.  Such
approval shall be revocable for cause and shall   be granted only upon
application therefor, setting forth a description of the place of storage or
manufacture and such other information as the Chief shall require.	C.	Storage:
Fireworks shall be stored in compliance with the following:	1.	A maximum of 500
pounds may be stored in approved portable magazines complying with the
provisions of L.A.F.D. Standard No. 40 and in a location approved by the
Chief.	2.	Quantities in excess of 500 pounds shall be stored in a room of
one-hour fire-resistive construction.  Door openings therein shall be protected
by one-hour fire assemblies.  Such rooms shall be equipped with an automatic
sprinkler system.
