                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FUEL-FIRED UNITS. (§ 57.61.07)

  FUEL-FIRED UNITS.	Construction and maintenance of every fuel-fired unit shall
conform to the following:	A.	Emergency Shut-off Valves: Valves shall be provided
to permit shutting off the fuel in an emergency and shall be located so that
fire or explosions at ovens or furnaces will not prevent access to these
valves.	B.	Manual Shutoff Valves: Manual shutoff valves shall be provided for
shutoff of the fuel to the pilot and/or burner for extended periods of
shutdown.  A main shutoff valve shall be located on the supply side of all
other components to shut off all flow of fuel for servicing and for other
shutdowns.	C.	Pressure Regulator: A pressure regulator shall be furnished
whenever the plant supply pressure exceeds that required for proper burner
operation or whenever the plant supply is subject to excessive fluctuations.
Regulators shall be vented to outdoors, or other safe location, with the
terminating end protected against water entry and bug screened.  Vent pipes
shall be of adequate size to assure proper regulator operation.	D.	Burner
Ignition: Burners shall ignite completely, smoothly, and reliably from the
ignition source provided.  If a burner cannot be safely ignited at all firing
rates encountered, positive provision shall be made to assure a firing rate
suitable for safe light-off at the time of ignition (low fire
start).	E.	Flow-control Valves: Flow-control valves of appropriate design shall
be used to change the rate of flow of pressurized combustible air and/or fuel
where applicable. Where the minimum and/or maximum flow of combustion air and/or
fuel is critical to the safe operation of the burner, flow valves shall be
equipped with an appropriate limiting means and with a locking device to prevent
an unintentional change in the setting.
