                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONSTRUCTION. (§ 57.61.05)

  CONSTRUCTION.	A.	Ovens shall be constructed of noncombustible materials
throughout, except where the maximum oven-operating temperature is not more than
160° F.  The amount of insulation used in oven panel construction shall be
enough to prevent the outside surface from exceeding 160°F, or adequate guards
shall be provided to protect personnel.	B.	Class C furnaces which may contain
flammable air-gas mixtures shall be equipped with explosion relief venting in
accordance with L.A.F.D. Standard No. 27.	C.	The building or room housing Class
C furnaces which have flammable atmospheres shall be provided with
explosion-relief venting in accordance with L.A.F.D. Standard No. 27.	D.	Oven
and furnace duct construction shall be in accordance with Chapter 9 of the
L.A.M.C. (Mechanical Code), and in accordance with the following:	1.	All duct
work shall be constructed of noncombustible material.	2.	Ducts shall be made
tight throughout and shall have no openings other than those required for the
proper operation and maintenance of the system.	3.	Ducts passing through
combustible walls, floors, or roofs shall have adequate insulation and
clearances to prevent surface temperatures from exceeding 160°F.	4.	Exhaust
ducts shall not discharge near doors, windows, or other air intakes that will
allow re-entry of vapors into the building.	5.	Access openings for cleaning the
oven or furnace enclosure and connecting ducts shall be provided.	E.	Roofs and
floors of ovens and furnaces shall be sufficiently insulated and ventilated to
keep temperatures at ceilings and floors below 160°F.
