                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

WARNING PLACARDS AND SIGNS. (§ 57.75.30)

  WARNING PLACARDS AND SIGNS.	A.	Whenever hazardous materials (water-reactive
materials, acid-reactive materials, and air-reactive materials), are processed
or stored in quantities requiring a Permit under Division 4 of this article,
warning placards designed and constructed as specified in L.A.F.D. Standard No.
58 shall be conspicuously posted at the following locations:	1.	At the entrance
to any building and to any room where hazardous materials are processed or
stored, and at such other locations as may be required by the Chief.	2.	At the
main entrance to any area outside a building where such materials are stored or
processed, or within such area if no entrance is clearly defined.	3.	On the
sides of or adjacent to tanks and vessels used for storage or processing of
hazardous materials.	B.	Whenever hazardous materials water-reactive materials,
acid-reactive materials, and air-reactive materials), are processed or stored
signs with letters not less than three inches high on contrasting background
stating, “WATER-REACTIVE MATERIAL”, “ACID-REACTIVE MATERIAL”, and/or
“AIR-REACTIVE MATERIAL”, appropriately identifying that type of hazard or
hazards involved, shall be posted at any location inside a building and at any
location within an area outside a building where such materials are stored or
processed, and at such other locations as may be required by the
Chief.	C.	Vehicles used for the transportation of hazardous materials shall be
posted with warning placards designed, constructed, and affixed as specified in
L.A.F.D. Standard No. 25 and shall comply with all other provisions of such
standard consistent with State law and regulations promulgated thereunder
regulating the transportation of such material.
