                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS – GRANTING – SPECIAL PROVISIONS. (§ 57.71.04)

  PERMITS – GRANTING – SPECIAL PROVISIONS.	A.	If the Department finds that
no unreasonable hazard to life, limb, or property is involved in the processing,
storage, or handling of unstable materials, the Permit shall be issued.	B.	If
the Department finds that the processing, storage, or handling of unstable
materials involves an unreasonable hazard to life, limb, or property, but can be
accomplished safely if certain precautions are taken, the Permit shall be
granted after such precautions have been taken.  The Permit shall prescribe the
manner and method in which the processing, storage or handling shall be
accomplished.	C.	If the Department finds that the processing, storage, or
handling of unstable materials cannot be accomplished in a reasonably safe
manner, the Permit shall be denied.	D.	Before authorizing the issuance of a
Permit, the Department may require that the applicant submit one or more of the
following reports:	1.	A report from an approved testing laboratory setting forth
the physical and chemical properties of the material in question, whenever such
properties are not readily available in the published literature, nor from other
recognized sources.	2.	A report furnishing evidence that the manner of
manufacture, processing, storage or handling of the unstable materials in
question is in accordance with recognized safe practices, and that it involves
no undue hazard to life, limb, or property:	3.	A report stating the
qualifications (including experience with and knowledge of the particular
material) of the person or persons who have been designated to supervise such
operations.
