                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXPLOSIVES VAULTS. (§ 57.70.11)

  EXPLOSIVES VAULTS.	A.	Explosive materials shall be stored in an explosives
vault.	EXCEPTION:	Explosive materials in temporary storage for immediate use may
be stored in a portable magazine.	B.	Not more than 500 pounds of explosive
materials shall be stored in any one explosives vault.	C.	Every explosives vault
used for the storage of explosive materials shall be constructed and isolated as
set forth in Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code), and located in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter I of the L.A.M.C. (Zoning).	D.	A
legible printed sign with the words “EXPLOSIVES VAULT – DANGEROUS” in
letters not less than six inches high shall be posted in conspicuous locations
on each side of the entrance to any aboveground explosives vault and at the
entrance to any underground explosives vault.	E.	No match, fire, or lighting
device of any kind except an electric flashlight or electric lantern shall at
any time be taken into an explosives vault.	F.	No package or container of
explosives shall at any time be opened in any explosives vault.	G.	Igniters,
detonators, fuzes, boosters, or other initiating devices shall not be stored in
the same explosives vault with explosive materials.	H.	When explosive materials
or initiating devices (igniters, detonators, fuzes, etc.) are removed from an
explosives vault, those which have been longest in the vault shall be removed
first.	I.	Explosives vaults shall be kept clean and free from rubbish.  They
shall not be used for the storage of any material except explosive
materials.	J.	Keys or combinations for explosives vault locks shall be kept in a
safe place.  No unauthorized person shall unlock or remove explosive materials
from an explosives vault.
