                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TYPES OF SAFETY CONTROL DEVICES. (§ 57.84.42)

  TYPES OF SAFETY CONTROL DEVICES.	The following safety control devices shall
be considered a minimum requirement.  The Chief shall have the authority to
require additional safety devices when deemed necessary.	A.	Purge Control – A
time relay for pre-ventilation shall be provided which shall be sufficient to
permit four complete air changes before burners can be lighted.  In batch
process ovens, doors must be inter-connected in such a manner that they must be
open during the purge period.  Such relay shall be arranged to reset instantly
to the starting position when the current supply is interrupted.	B.	Ventilation
Safety – Equipment shall be provided to insure required ventilation of the
system during operation. In case of fan failure, conveyor and heater shall be
shut down by means of positive interlock safety control on exhaust and
circulating system.	C.	Combustion Safeguards – Safety interlocks shall be
provided to insure flame on pilot burner before main burner valve can be
opened.  On ovens over one hundred cubic feet capacity, these shall operate in
a maximum time of ten seconds.  In case the main burner flame is extinguished,
the fuel supply shall be automatically shut off.	D.	Excess Temperature Controls
– Excess temperature limit switches shall be arranged to cut off the fuel
supply when the temperature exceeds a safe limit.  They shall not reopen the
fuel valve.  There shall be at least one such control in the oven and on
externally heated ovens one additional control in the heater.	E.	Safety Fuel
Valve – The above safety controls shall be interlocked with the main fuel
supply including the pilot by a safety valve which shall be normally closed. 
This valve shall be used for safety shutoff service only and shall be
independent of the temperature control valve.MAINTENANCE
