                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SAFEGUARDING NONOPERATING OIL WELLS. (§ 57.90.42)

  SAFEGUARDING NONOPERATING OIL WELLS.	Every oil well which has not been
operated or which has ceased to produce petroleum or natural gas for a
continuous period of 90 days shall be safeguarded in compliance with the
provisions of this section.	A.	All storage of material, whether combustible or
not, shall be removed from the oil well site.  The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to approved tanks, boilers, pumps, piping, valves, or
other equipment, machinery, and facilities which are connected together in a
fixed position and form the operating equipment and arrangement for normal oil
production procedure.	B.	Above-ground tanks, pipe line, oil and gas separators,
dehydrating plants, or pump suction pits, and other appurtenant equipment shall
be freed of flammable vapors or otherwise rendered safe by a qualified
person.	C.	Every such oil well shall be properly equipped with a head fitting
and shut-off valve capable of withstanding any pressure which may develop in the
well.  The shutoff valve shall be maintained in a closed position and secured
against unauthorized tampering.  Adequate provision shall be provided to allow
the installation of a pressure gauge in connection with vapor space of the
well.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	The provisions of this section shall not apply to oil wells
which are under regular surveillance or the substantial equivalent thereto, such
as by reason of drilling or producing of wells or similar operational activities
on the same premises.	2.	For the purpose of this section, any Class B oil well
shall be deemed to be in operation when such well is physically connected by
means of a suitably employable manifold or piping system, to any oil well or
wells or to any other operating equipment wherein the Class B oil well is used
as an integrated operational part thereof.
