                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SURCHARGE FOR EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING. (§ 61.03)

  SURCHARGE FOR EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,332, Eff. 8/12/03.)	(a)	There shall be added to the
total of all fees for which the Bureau of Engineering is responsible for
collecting for services rendered for any initial application, renewal,
modification, or approval pursuant to the provisions of Article 1, 2, 2.1, 3 or
4 of this Chapter, Article 2, 5, 7, 8 or 9 of Chapter I, or Article 1 or 6 of
Chapter IX of this Code, or Division 7, 12, 13, 19, or 22 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code, a surcharge in an amount equal to the greater of seven
percent of the fee or $1.  The provisions of this Subsection shall not apply to
the One Stop Permit Center Surcharge imposed pursuant to Section 68.12, or to
fees imposed pursuant to the provisions of Section 61.10, 61.11, 64.11.2,
64.11.3, 64.16.1, 64.15 (b), or 64.18.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff.
9/28/12.)	(b)	All monies received from this surcharge shall be deposited and
maintained in the Public Works Bureau of Engineering Equipment and Training
Trust Fund established pursuant to Section 5.411 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code.	(c)	These monies shall be used for the provision of
equipment and training for those Bureau personnel providing the engineering
services for which the fees are charged.  These services are not routinely
provided to the general public, but are performed only upon specific
request.	(d)	If any provision of this ordinance is found to be unconstitutional
or invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity shall not
affect the remaining provisions of this ordinance which can be implemented
without this invalid provision, and, to this end, the provisions of this
ordinance are declared severable.
