                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ACTUAL COST SPECIAL ENGINEERING SERVICES. (§ 61.15)

  ACTUAL COST SPECIAL ENGINEERING SERVICES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	For all Bureau of Engineering
permits or other services identified in this Chapter for which a fee is charged,
and which require Bureau staff to provide more than 16 hours of time for plan
checking, field investigation, project evaluation, or other work or effort in
addition to that which is ordinarily required for the permit or service for
which the fee is charged, or for requested Bureau services for projects not
specifically described in this Code, the Bureau shall charge and collect a fee
in an amount sufficient to pay the Bureau’s actual cost of providing its
services.  The actual cost amount determination shall include, but not be
limited to, all direct and indirect labor costs, retirement and overhead costs.
  An applicant for any permit or services subject to the provisions of this
Section must pay, before the Bureau of Engineering provides any services, a
deposit in an amount that the Bureau estimates will be the actual cost of
providing its services.	For Bureau of Engineering services provided pursuant to
the provisions of this Section, if before completion of providing the requested
services the Bureau determines that additional funds are needed to compensate
the Bureau for the actual cost of providing the services, the Bureau may halt
all work on the project for which the application was made and require the
applicant to pay the amount that the Bureau estimates will be needed to
compensate the Bureau for the actual cost of providing the requested services. 
At the conclusion of providing the requested services, if actual Bureau costs
are less than the amount deposited, the applicant shall be refunded the
difference.  The Bureau of Engineering shall not issue or approve any permit
until all monies owed pursuant to the provisions of this Section are paid.
