                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RAILROADS – MANNER OF ASPHALT PAVING. (§ 62.120)

  RAILROADS – MANNER OF ASPHALT PAVING.	Whenever the Council shall order any
street, upon or across which there are any steam, electric, interurban or street
railroad tracks, to be paved with asphalt, vitrified brick, stone block or other
permanent pavement, any person having such tracks thereon, shall construct the
roadbed of such tracks in the following manner:	All ties upon which rails are
laid shall be firmly embedded in hydraulic cement concrete, or if the said
person shall so elect, in ballast composed of broken stone or screened gravel,
grouted as hereinafter provided. In case hydraulic cement concrete is used, it
shall be composed, by volume, of not less than one (1) part Portland cement to
three (3) parts sand and six (6) parts of broken stone or screened gravel. The
concrete shall extend at least six (6) inches below the bottom of the ties with
the top of the ties, but said concrete below the bottom of the pavement base
need not extend more than three (3) inches beyond the ends of the ties. In case
ballast is used it shall be composed of hard durable stone or of screened
gravel, free from dust and dirt, of such sizes and so graded as to permit of
thorough grouting. The ballast shall be at least six (6) inches thick below the
bottom of the ties; and the space between and around the ties shall be filled in
with ballast, level with the top of the ties; but said ballast need not extend
more than three (3) inches beyond the end of the ties. The entire thickness of
the ballast shall be thoroughly grouted with hydraulic cement mortar composed by
volume of not less than one (1) part Portland cement, to three (3) parts sand;
provided, however, that in case of any street ordered to be paved with asphalt,
the Board may, at its discretion, grant such person special permission to use
ballast without grouting, up to the level of the bottom of the base of such
asphalt pavement; except, that in case such permission is granted, hydraulic or
Portland cement concrete of the character herein provided, shall be laid between
the ties and beneath the rails extending not less than one (1) foot on each side
of each rail and not less than four (4) inches in thickness beneath the rails.
