                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTING PLANTS. (§ 62.168)

  REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTING PLANTS.	In case any tree, shrub or plant in any street
in the city, or standing on privately owned real property and overhanging or
projecting into a public street, appears to be dead, liable to fall, dangerous,
or an obstruction to public travel on any such street, the Board shall cause the
same, or such parts thereof as are dead, liable to fall, dangerous, or an
obstruction to such public travel, to be cut down, and, if in the street, to be
removed therefrom. Before the Board causes any such tree or shrub to be cut down
or removed, the Board shall give at least ten days written notice of its
intention to so proceed to the owner, occupant, or agent of the property upon
which the tree or shrub is located, or of the property which abuts that part of
the street in which the tree or shrub is located, provided, however, that where
the immediate cutting and removal of the tree is necessary to protect the public
from danger, such notice shall not be required. Such an owner, occupant, or
agent may file with the Board his or her objection to such cutting and removal.
These objections must be filed within seven (7) days after the Board has given
such notice of intent. In the event the objections are timely filed, the tree or
shrub shall not be cut down or removed unless such owner, occupant, or agent has
been given a reasonable opportunity to be heard in support of his or her
objection. The Board’s determination after the hearing shall be set forth in
writing and a copy thereof forwarded to the party who had filed the
objections.  (Added by Ord. No. 153,500, Eff. 4/18/80.)
