                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

OVERLOADS – APPLICATION FOR PERMITS. (§ 62.141)

  OVERLOADS – APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 123,538, Eff. 2/9/63.)	No permit to move any overload
shall be issued by the Board unless the applicant has first:	(a)	Made written
application therefor upon forms provided by the Board. Said application shall
fully describe the vehicle or vehicles to be operated and load to be moved, and
except in the case of annual permits, the particular highways, public streets
and places over which permission to operate is requested, and shall state
whether such permit is requested for a single trip, or for continuous operation
over a period not to exceed 30 days, or on an annual basis. The Board may
require the applicant to furnish it with such other information as the Board
determines is necessary under the circumstances in order to carry out the
provisions of this article.	(b)	Paid the fees required by Subsection (c) of this
section and complied with all other applicable provisions of this
article.	(c)	(Amended by Ord. No. 165,675, Eff. 5/11/90.)  At the time the
application is filed to the Board, the applicant shall pay:	(1)	A fee for each
single trip permit.	(2)	A fee for each day a 30-day permit shall be in
effect.	(3)	A fee for each annual permit.	The fees and charges herein shall be
determined and adopted in the same manner as provided in Section 12.37I1 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code for establishing fees.	(d)	In lieu of paying those
individual permit fees required by Subsection (c) of this section and in lieu of
making those deposits required by Section 62.146, the applicant may make and
maintain with the Board a general deposit in the sum of $500.00 which shall be
used to guarantee payment of permit fees and inspection fees to be billed on a
monthly charge account basis.  (Added by Ord. No 136,358, Eff. 5/6/68.)
