                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RAILROADS – MANNER OF IMPROVING STREETS. (§ 62.121)

  RAILROADS – MANNER OF IMPROVING STREETS.	Whenever the Council shall order
the street upon or across which there are any steam, electric, interurban or
street railroad tracks, to be paved or otherwise improved, any person having
such tracks thereon, or across the same, shall pave or otherwise improve that
portion of such street required by law to be paved and kept in repair, by any
person having steam, electric, interurban or street railroad tracks thereon, in
the following manner:	The portion of the street between the rails, and for two
(2) feet on each side thereof and between the tracks, if there be more than one,
shall be paved or otherwise improved in a similar manner in all respects; except
as hereinafter provided, to the work so ordered to be performed upon the
contiguous portion of the street, under the same specifications and
superintendence, with the same kinds of material and to the like satisfaction
and acceptance; provided, that upon all streets which may be hereafter paved
with asphalt, that portion of the street for a space of not less than six and
one-half (6 1/2) inches on the gauge side and not less than three and
three-quarter (3 3/4) inches on the outer side of each rail of such tracks and
contiguous thereto, shall be paved with stone blocks; all of said blocks to be
laid evenly and uniformly on edge in cement mortar upon a concrete foundation
and grouted with hydraulic or Portland cement mortar, composed by volume, of one
(1) part of cement to one (1) part sand. Special types of blocks or special
methods of constructing the pavement along the rails, may be used with the
written consent of the Board. Upon all streets which may be hereafter improved
or re-improved with asphalt or similar pavement, the specifications for which
require a binder course, such binder course need not be constructed between the
rails, within two (2) feet of the rails, or between the tracks, if there be more
than one track.	The entire roadbed construction and paving, except as herein
otherwise provided shall be in accordance with the plans and cross sections for
railroad track construction, on file in the office of the City Engineer, which
plans and cross sections are numbered 26.261 and 26.262 and are designated
“Plans and Cross Sections for Street Railroad Track Construction in the City
of Los Angeles,” and are hereby adopted as and for the plans and cross
sections therefor.
