                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

OVERLOADS – 30 DAY AND ANNUAL PERMITS. (§ 62.143)

  OVERLOADS – 30 DAY AND ANNUAL PERMITS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,556, Eff. 3/15/11.)	(a)	The Board may issue the
following permits:	(1)	For continuous movement of identical overloads over the
same route for a period not to exceed 30 days; or	(2)	On an annual basis for the
moving of oversize or overweight truck cranes, house trailers, oil well service
equipment, airline food service vehicles and miscellaneous construction
equipment such as crawler tractors, carry-all scrapers, pull-type scrapers,
crawler cranes, backhoes, rollers, compactors, pavers, portable conveyors,
concrete spreaders, concrete tampers, concrete floats, tool sheds, construction
offices and equipment utilized in filming; or	(3)	On an annual basis for the
operation and movement of a vehicle on the public rights of way located in the
Port of Los Angeles Heavy Container Corridor as determined by the Board, if the
vehicle satisfies all of the following:	(i)	The vehicle consists of a tractor
and chassis, and will be used to transport intermodal cargo containers, defined
as any type of cargo conveyance that is non-disposable, has an outside length of
not less than 6.04 meters, and is primarily designed, constructed, certified and
approved for the movement of cargo in intermodal transportation;	(ii)	The
vehicle, in combination with its load, has a maximum gross weight in excess of
the maximum gross weight limit of vehicles and loads specified in Section 35551
of the California Vehicle Code, or a successor section, but the vehicle, in
combination with its load, does not exceed 95,000 pounds gross weight;
and	(iii)	The vehicle, in combination with its load, confirms to the axle weight
limits specified in California Vehicle Code Section 35550, or a successor
section, and does not exceed the axle weight limits specified in California
Vehicle Code Section 35551, or a successor section.	(b)	A permit issued pursuant
to the provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section shall not authorize the
movement of hazardous material or hazardous waste, the transportation of which
by the permittee in the permitted vehicle would violate local, state, or federal
law.	(c)	The Board shall have the authority to adopt policies, rules, and
regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Section and to implement and
administer its duties imposed pursuant to the provisions of this Section.  The
Board’s authority includes, but is not limited to, requiring applicants to
provide proof of insurance pursuant to the provisions of Section 62.145,
requiring applicants to agree to indemnify the City for damages caused by
operation of the permitted vehicle, and requiring persons issued permits to keep
the permit in the permitted vehicle at all times and furnish the permit upon
request to an agent of the Board or to any law enforcement officer or
official.  The Board, to safeguard the public health, safety, welfare or
property, may regulate the movement, size and weight of the material being
transported pursuant to a permit issued under the provisions of Subsection (a)
of this Section, and the Board’s regulatory authority includes, but is not
limited to, designating routes that can be traveled, days and hours that
materials can be transported, and required safety devices.	(d)	The Board or its
authorized agent may suspend or revoke a permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section for any of the following
reasons:	(1)	The failure of the permittee to abide by any of the requirements of
this Section or of the Board’s rules, regulations or requirements; or	(2)	The
failure of the permittee to maintain the required insurance; or	(3)	Where the
Board or an authorized agent of the Board determines that there is sufficient
cause to suspend or revoke a permit because the continued movement of the
vehicle for which the permit was issued would jeopardize the safety of motorists
or would damage the right of way.
