                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BUILDING MATERIAL DEPOSITS – CRANES – RESTRICTIONS. (§ 62.51)

  BUILDING MATERIAL DEPOSITS – CRANES – RESTRICTIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 128,226, Eff. 10/12/64.)	1.	No person shall deposit or
maintain any building material of any kind whatsoever, or any debris from any
building or excavation, in or upon any public street:	(a)	Within twenty-five
(25) feet of any fire hydrant;	(b)	Within eleven (11) feet of the nearest rail
of any railroad track on such street;	(c)	Where no railroad track exists, not
more than ten (10) feet from such curb to the curb on the opposite side of the
street;	(d)	In any manner as to prevent the passage of any vehicle;	(e)	In any
manner as to obstruct the gutter space of the street;	(f)	Except upon the same
side of the street and immediately in front of the building in actual course of
construction, alteration, repair or demolition.	2.	Any person operating a crane
in or upon the public street, whether required by Section 62.45 to obtain a
permit or not, must comply with the following regulations:	(a)	No unauthorized
person or vehicle is to be permitted to pass or stand under the boom or load.
All unauthorized persons and vehicles must be kept at a safe distance from such
operations;	(b)	Flagmen, barricades, signs and warning devices are to be
provided and maintained whenever necessary to protect the public;	(c)	The
contractor shall be liable for all damage that occurs to public streets or
improvements or property therein which is caused by or results from the
operation of a crane in the public street;	(d)	Any condition specified by the
Board in granting the permit including, but not limited to, the hours and days
that cranes may be parked or operated in a public street, and any safety
measures to be taken by the permittee.
