                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

OIL PIPE LINES – REGULATIONS. (§ 62.72)

  OIL PIPE LINES – REGULATIONS.	No person shall erect, maintain or operate
any pipe, casing, or other appliance or apparatus, or any truss or standard for
holding or supporting the same, over or across any street or sidewalk for the
purpose of loading oil tank wagons or vehicles in a manner contrary to the
following provisions:	(a)	The clearance between the bottom side of such pipe,
casing, or other appliance or apparatus or of any such truss, and the surface of
any street or sidewalk shall not be less than eight (8) feet, and from the point
at which the gutter of the street joins the curb the distance shall not be less
than ten (10) feet;	(b)	Such pipe or casing, when the same is extended over the
surface of any sidewalk, shall be without a joint from a point less than four
(4) feet inside the property line to the point where the same is connected with
the gate or valve located at the top of the truss or standard supporting such
pipe or casing;	(c)	Such pipe or casing shall have a gate or valve located not
more than one (1) foot from the tank or reservoir to which such pipe or casing
is attached, which gate or valve shall be at all times kept in such a condition
as to prevent the leakage of oil therefrom, and such gate or valve shall be kept
closed at all times when the loading of a tank vehicle is not in
progress;	(d)	Such pipe or casing shall have a gate or valve located on top of
the truss or standard supporting such pipe or casing. The center line of such
gate or valve shall be in line with the center line of such truss or standard
and such gate or valve shall be at all times kept in such condition as to
prevent the leakage of oil therefrom. Such gate or valve shall be kept closed at
all times when the loading of a tank vehicle is not in progress;	(e)	Such pipe
or casing extending over the gutter of any street shall have on the outer end
thereof an ell into which shall be screwed a nipple of sufficient length that
when the same is turned the open end thereof pointing toward the gutter will
enter the dome of the tank vehicle that it is to be or is being loaded. Such ell
so connected to the outer end of such pipe or casing, when the same is not being
used for the loading of a tank vehicle, shall be at all times turned up so that
the outer and open end of the nipple screwed therein shall point in an upward
direction. Such ell and nipple shall not project over the surface of any street
to a greater distance than five (5) feet from the outer face of the
curb;	(f)	Every joint in any such pipe or casing, or in any connection thereof,
shall be connected in such a manner as to prevent the leakage of oil
therefrom;	(g)	Every such truss or standard shall be constructed in accordance
with plans and specifications that shall be approved by and filed in the office
of the Board;	(h)	Every truss or standard shall be set immediately inside the
face of the curb to a depth of not less than two (2) feet from the top of such
curb.
