                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RENEWAL OF GRANTS – EXISTING STRUCTURES. (§ 63.18)

  RENEWAL OF GRANTS – EXISTING STRUCTURES.	If any person now owns or
maintains any structure on any public beach land or water over which the Board
of Playground and Recreation Commissioners now has or may hereafter acquire
jurisdiction and said structure has been erected under and pursuant to a grant
issued by the State of California, the County of Los Angeles, or any
municipality now existing, or formerly existing within the County of Los
Angeles, the same may be maintained in its present condition until the
expiration of the time specified in the grant. After the grant under which any
such structure was erected has expired, a renewal of such grant must be secured
from the Board of Playground and Recreation Commissioners in the manner outlined
in this article and subject to the terms outlined therein. Any existing
structure, built under a grant issued by the State of California, County of Los
Angeles, or any municipality now existing or formerly existing in the County of
Los Angeles, on lands that are now under the control of, or that may hereafter
be under the control of the Playground and Recreation Commissioners of the City
of Los Angeles, and which grant does not specify the length of time for which
said grant was to run, shall expire twenty (20) years from the date of the
issuance of the grant.	However, any existing structure hereinbefore mentioned in
this section may be repaired and maintained in the manner specified in the
original grant without the necessity of obtaining a new grant from the Board of
Playground and Recreation Commissioners until the expiration of the life of the
grant, as above mentioned, but such structure cannot be maintained or repaired
in a manner that differs from the manner specified in the original grant for the
construction of the same, and, if any such existing structure is now being
maintained, or has been repaired, or the grantees or their successors hereafter
attempt to maintain or repair such structure in a manner that differs from the
original grant in any way that will affect or change the drift of sand, or alter
the current of water, the owners of such existing structure must obtain a grant
from the Board of Playground and Recreation Commissioners to maintain such
existing structure in its present condition and a grant must be obtained in the
event that any attempt is made to repair such existing structure in a manner
that will alter the current of water or change the drift of sand in a manner
different from the original drift of sand or flow of current. The Board may deny
said application if in the exercise of a reasonable discretion the Board of
Playground and Recreation Commissioners determines after an investigation, that
the particular structure for which an application is being made has been
repaired and is now being maintained or it is sought to repair or maintain a
structure in a manner different from the construction of the same in its
original grant and the present or contemplated condition of the structure is or
would be such that it would change the current of the water or the drift of the
sand in a manner different from the manner in which the original structure would
affect the current or drift.
