                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXCAVATIONS – TUJUNGA WASH. (§ 63.128)

  EXCAVATIONS – TUJUNGA WASH.	(a)	Definition.  “Tujunga Wash” shall mean
that area within the following described bounds:	Beginning at the intersection
of the center line of Glenoaks Boulevard 100 feet in width, with the center line
of Branford Street, 40 feet in width; thence southeasterly along said center
line of Glenoaks Boulevard to the center line of Truesdale Street, 40 feet in
width; thence southwesterly along said center line of Truesdale Street and its
southwesterly prolongation to the center line of the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company’s Right of Way (Inland Branch), 100 feet in width; thence
southwesterly in a direct line to the intersection of the center line of Sharp
Avenue, 60 feet in width, with the center line of Sheldon Street, 60 feet in
width; thence southerly in a direct line to a point in the center line of
Strathern Street, 50 feet in width, distant thereon 400 feet easterly from the
center line of Whitsett Avenue, 50 feet in width; thence southeasterly in a
direct line to the intersection of the southerly line of Vanowen Street, 65 feet
in width, with the center line of St. Clair Avenue, 60 feet in width; thence
southeasterly in a direct line to the intersection of the center line of Victory
Boulevard, 50 feet in width, with the center line of Laurel Canyon Boulevard, 50
feet in width; thence southeasterly in a direct line to intersection of the
center line of Camellia Avenue, 60 feet in width, with the northerly line of
Chandler Boulevard (Northerly Roadway), 50 feet in width; thence southeasterly
in a direct line to the intersection of the center line of Bakman Avenue, 60
feet in width, with the center line of Camarillo Street, 80 feet in width;
thence southeasterly in a direct line to the intersection of the center line of
Bellflower Avenue, 50 feet in width, with the center line of Riverside Drive,
100 feet in width; thence southerly along said center line of Bellflower Avenue
to its intersection with the center line of Moorpark Street, 50 feet in width;
thence southeasterly in a direct line to the intersection of easterly
prolongation of the northerly line of Chiquita Street extending westerly from
Lankershim Boulevard, with the center line of Lankershim Boulevard, 100 feet in
width; thence southeasterly and southerly along said center line of Lankershim
Boulevard to its intersection with the center line of Bluffside Drive, 60 feet
in width; thence northwesterly in a direct line to the intersection of the
center line of Vineland Avenue, 50 feet in width, with the center line of Aqua
Vista Street, 40 feet in width; thence northwesterly in a direct line to the
intersection of the center line of Woodbridge Street, 60 feet in width, with the
center line of Bakman Avenue, 60 feet in width; thence northerly in a direct
line to intersection of the center line of said Bakman Avenue with the center
line of Sarah Street, 60 feet in width; thence northwesterly in a direct line to
the intersection of the center line of Riverside Drive, 100 feet in width, with
the center line of Farmdale Avenue, 60 feet in width; thence northwesterly in a
direct line to the intersection of the center line of Irvine Avenue, 60 feet in
width, with the center line of Chandler Boulevard (South Roadway), 50 feet in
width, extending westerly from Irvine Avenue; thence northwesterly in a direct
line to a point in the center line of Emelita Street, 60 feet in width, distant
thereon 600 feet easterly from the center line of Laurel Canyon Boulevard, 100
feet in width; thence northwesterly in a direct line to the intersection of the
northerly line of Victory Boulevard, 75 feet in width, with the center line of
Rhodes Avenue, 60 feet in width; thence northwesterly in a direct line to the
intersection of the center line of Vanowen Street, 50 feet in width, with the
center line of Whitsett Avenue, 50 feet in width; thence northwesterly in a
direct line to a point in the center line of Raymer Street, 40 feet in width,
distant thereon 500 feet northwesterly from the center line of Whitsett Avenue,
50 feet in width; thence northwesterly along said center line of Raymer Street
to a point distant thereon 500 feet southeasterly from the center line of Fulton
Avenue, 50 feet in width; thence southerly in a direct line to a point in the
center line of Vanowen Street, 50 feet in width, distant thereon 600 feet
westerly from the center line of Ethel Avenue, 50 feet in width; thence
southeasterly in a direct line to a point in the center line of Oxnard Street,
50 feet in width, distant thereon 600 feet easterly from the center line of
Coldwater Canyon Avenue, 50 feet in width; thence southerly in a direct line to
a point in the center line of Burbank Boulevard, 50 feet in width, distant
thereon 500 feet easterly from the center line of Coldwater Canyon Avenue, 50
feet in width; thence southerly in a direct line to the intersection of the
center line of Magnolia Boulevard, 50 feet in width, with the northerly
prolongation of the westerly line of Goodland Avenue, 30 feet in width; thence
southeasterly in a direct line to the intersection of the center line of
Bellaire Avenue, 60 feet in width, extending northerly of Addison Street with
the northerly line of Addison Street produced; thence southeasterly in a direct
line to the intersection of the center line of Morella Avenue, 60 feet in width,
with the northerly line of Moorpark Street produced; thence southeasterly in a
direct line to the intersection of the center line of Woodbridge Street, 60 feet
in width, with the center line of Colfax Avenue, 80 feet in width; thence
southerly along said center line of Colfax Avenue to its intersection with the
center line of first alley northeasterly of Ventura Boulevard; thence
northwesterly along the center line of said alley to its intersection with the
center line of Radford Avenue, 85 feet in width; thence northerly along the said
center line of Radford Avenue to its intersection with the center line of Valley
Heart Drive (South Roadway), 50 feet in width; thence northwesterly in a direct
line to the intersection of the center line of Whitsett Avenue, 80 feet wide,
with the easterly prolongation of the southerly line of Kling Street, 50 feet in
width, extending westerly from Whitsett Avenue; thence northwesterly in a direct
line to the intersection of the center line of Riverside Drive, 50 feet in
width, with the southerly prolongation of the easterly line of Bellaire Avenue,
20 feet in width, extending northerly from Riverside Drive; thence northwesterly
in a direct line to the intersection of the center line of Coldwater Canyon
Avenue, 50 feet in width, with the center line of Addison Street, 40 feet in
width; thence northwesterly in a direct line to a point in the center line of
Magnolia Boulevard, 50 feet in width, distant thereon 300 feet westerly from the
center line of Coldwater Canyon Avenue, 50 feet in width; thence northerly in a
direct line to a point in the center line of Burbank Boulevard, 50 feet in
width, distant thereon 500 feet westerly from the center line of Coldwater
Canyon Avenue, 50 feet in width; thence northerly in a direct line to a point in
the center line of Oxnard Street, 50 feet in width, distant thereon 400 feet
westerly from the center line of Coldwater Canyon Avenue, 50 feet in width;
thence northwesterly in a direct line to the intersection of the center line of
Atoll Avenue, 60 feet in width, with a line parallel with and 50 feet northerly,
measured at right angles, from the southerly line of Victory Boulevard, 75 feet
in width; thence northwesterly in a direct line to the intersection of the
easterly line of Sunnyslope Avenue, 30 feet in width, with the northerly line of
Hart Street, 30 feet in width; thence northerly in a direct line to the
intersection of the center line of Woodman Avenue, 50 feet in width, with the
center line of Raymer Street, 40 feet in width; thence northeasterly in a direct
line to the intersection of the southeasterly line of Truesdale Street, 80 feet
in width, with the southerly line of Roscoe Boulevard, 50 feet in width; thence
northeasterly in a direct line to the intersection of the center line of
Canterbury Avenue, 60 feet in width, with the center line of Reedley Street, 60
feet in width; thence northeasterly in a direct line to the intersection of the
center line of Laurel Canyon Boulevard, 60 feet in width, with the center line
of Branford Street 60 feet in width; thence northeasterly along said center line
of Branford Street to the point of beginning.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person
shall excavate or remove any sand, rock, stone or gravel from the Tujunga Wash
without first obtaining from the Board of Public Works a permit so to
do.	(c)	Application and Deposit.  Application for any such permit and
accompanying deposit shall be made as provided in Section 63.124 of this
Code.	(d)	Rules and Regulations.  The Board shall adopt rules and regulations
governing excavations hereunder, and all provisions of Section 63.125 of the
Code, not in conflict with this section, shall be applicable to the excavations
made under this section.	(e)	Authority of Board to Refuse Permit.  The Board
shall deny any application unless it appears to the City Engineer and the Board
that the proposed excavation can and will be made without creating a condition
hazardous to life or to public or private property.
