                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEPTH OF EXCAVATIONS. (§ 63.127)

  DEPTH OF EXCAVATIONS.	(a)	The edge of any excavation made under this article
shall not he nearer than two times the proposed depth of the excavation to the
line of any public or private property other than that owned or controlled by
the person making such excavation. The excavation may be carried to within ten
feet of any such public or private property, provided the banks be supported in
a manner satisfactory to the Board and that a substantial fence be erected along
the top of the bank, when deemed necessary by the Board.	(b)	In no case shall
the depth of any excavation made under this article exceed the depth of the
foundation of any pier, abutment, wall or support of any bridge or trestle
across a water course upon which such excavation is made, with in Two Hundred
(200) feet upstream or Five Hundred (500) feet downstream from such
excavation.	Whenever, in the opinion of the Board, it shall be dangerous to the
public welfare and safety to permit any such excavation to approach within five
hundred (500) feet of the foundation of any pier, abutment, wall or support of
any such bridge or trestle the Board may increase the distance within which such
excavation may approach such pier, abutment, wall or support to such distance as
it may deem necessary.	(c)	In portions of the Arroyo Seco or the Los Angeles
River where one or both banks is or are protected by walls, no excavation
opposite along any wall, shall be made to a depth lower than three feet above
the level of the bottom of the foundation of that portion of any wall opposite
such excavation.
