                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LIBRARY REGULATIONS. (§ 63.93)

  LIBRARY REGULATIONS.	Within the limits of any public library no person shall
do any of the following acts:	(a)	Carry or discharge any firearms, fire
crackers, rockets, torpedoes or any other fireworks, or airgun or
slingshot;	(b)	Cut, break, injure, deface or disturb any tree, shrub, plant,
rock, building, cage, pen, monument, fence, bench or other structure, apparatus,
or property, or pluck, pull up, cut, take or remove any shrub, bush, plant or
flower, or mark or write upon any building, monument, fence, bench or other
structure.	(c)	Distribute any handbills or circulars, or post, place or erect
any bills, notice, paper or advertising device or matter of any kind.	(d)	Wade
in or pollute the water of any fountain, pond, lake or stream.	(e)	Indulge in
riotous, boisterous, threatening or indecent conduct, or abusive, threatening,
profane, or indecent language.	(f)	Sell or offer for sale any merchandise,
article or thing, whatsoever, without the written consent of the Board of
Library Commissioners.	(g)	Practice, carry on, conduct or solicit for any trade,
occupation, business or profession or to circulate any petition of whatsoever
kind or character without the permission of the Board of Library
Commissioners.	(h)	Remain, stay or loiter within the limits of any public
library between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. the following day. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 176,829, Eff. 8/27/05.)	(i)	Play or bet at or against any
game which is played, conducted, dealt, or carried on with cards, dice or other
device, for money, chips, shells, credits, or any other representative of value
or to maintain or exhibit any gambling table or other instrument of gambling or
gaming.
