                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CITY VEHICLES – USE OF SEAL. (§ 63.98)

  CITY VEHICLES – USE OF SEAL.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 132,116, Eff. 5/20/66.)	Every passenger motor vehicle
owned by this City, except passenger vehicles assigned to the Mayor, City
Council, and members of the Police Department, shall at all times have painted
or imprinted on each side of the vehicle, preferably on the foredoors, the
official seal of this City, not less than six inches in diameter. At the option
of the department to which said motor vehicle has been assigned there may be
painted or imprinted in letters two inches in height, immediately below such
seal, the name of the department, and immediately below such name there shall be
painted or imprinted in digits one and one half inches in height the automotive
equipment number assigned by the Purchasing Agent to the vehicle. In the absence
of the department name, there shall be imprinted below said seal the automotive
equipment number assigned by the Purchasing Agent. In no instance shall any
passenger motor vehicle owned by this City bear more than three described
markings, to wit: The City Seal, the name of the department to which assigned,
and the prescribed equipment number of the unit, except that passenger motor
vehicles, black and white in color, assigned to the Police Department may have
painted or imprinted, thereon, immediately to the rear of the official seal of
this City, the words “to protect and to serve,” no letter of which shall
exceed two inches in height, and except that passenger motor vehicles assigned
to the Fire Department may have painted or imprinted thereon numbers, letters,
words of such size and color and in such locations as may be necessary to
provide ground and aerial identification at emergencies.
