                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SEWER CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE FUND. (§ 64.19.2)

  SEWER CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 162,864, Eff. 11/22/87.)	There is hereby established a
special fund in the City Treasury entitled Sewer Construction and Maintenance
Fund. The Council shall designate by ordinance those monies which shall be
deposited on a regular basis into the Fund. All monies received from the sale of
sewage derived energy shall also be deposited into the Fund as shall operation
and maintenance payments received by the City from contracting agencies for
sewer services provided by the City. Monies deposited into the fund shall not be
subject to reversion to the Reserve Fund.	Monies deposited into the Fund shall
be expended only for sewer and sewage-related purposes including but not limited
to industrial waste control and water reclamation purposes and including, but
not limited to, funding of the Wastewater System Revenue Bonds Funds created by
Section 5.168.1 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code. Expenditures shall be
made from the Fund as provided in the General City Budget or by Council
resolution unless provided otherwise by ordinance, except however that monies in
the fund which were received by the City subject to any limitations on their use
may only be expended in accordance with those limitations.	The Board of Public
Works shall cause the necessary demands to be drawn upon monies approved for
expenditure pursuant to the section except that expenditures for deposit into
(a) the Wastewater System Revenue Bonds Funds shall be made as provided in
Section 5.168.2 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code and; (b) the Sewer
Operation and Maintenance Fund and Sewer Capital Fund shall be made as provided
for in Sections 64.19.3 and 64.19.4 of this Code, without such demands
