                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REFUND OF SEWER FEES. (§ 64.19)

  REFUND OF SEWER FEES.	(a)	Any money collected or received by the City in
accordance with Section 64.11.2, 64.16.1 or 64.18 may be refunded as provided in
this Subsection, or may be credited pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (b)
or (e) of this Section, and not otherwise, if a verified claim in writing is
filed with the City Clerk accompanied by the original receipt or certificate for
the fees collected.  If said receipt or certificate cannot be located, an
affidavit must be filed with the claim which satisfactorily explains why it
cannot be located.  Such refund shall be made only on the following
conditions:  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff.
4/6/12.)	1.	Where payment was made per Section 64.11.2 and tract proceedings
have expired or been abandoned, the claim must be filed within one year from the
date said proceedings expired or where abandoned.	2.	Where payment was made per
Section 64.11.2 and a refund is due because the amount paid was more than that
required for the developed property pursuant to Section 64.11.3, the claim must
be filed after and within one year from the date the property was fully
developed.	3.	Where payment was made per Section 64.16.1 or 64.18 and a house
connection permit to connect improvements to the public sewer was obtained per
Section 64.12 and where the house connection permit expired or was cancelled and
said payment is no longer required, the claim must be filed within one year from
the date said permit expired or was cancelled.	4.	Where payment was made per
Section 64.16.1 or 64.18 and no house connection permit to connect improvements
to the public sewer was obtained, and said payment is not required, the claim
must be filed within one year after expiration of the building permit, as such
expiration is determined by Section 98.0602 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
168, 533, Eff. 3/1/93.)	5.	Where payment was made per Section 64.16.l or 64.18
and no house connection permit to connect improvements to the public sewer was
obtained, the time for a plan check, including any extension, pursuant to
Section 98.0603 of this Code, has expired, and no payment is required the claim
must be filed within one year after the date of such expiration.  (Added by
Ord. No. 168, 533, Eff. 3/1/93.)	6.	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,036, Eff.
6/6/96.)  Where payment was made per Section 64.16.1 for a new building and
later a demolition occurs on the same lot or parcel, a refund shall be allowed
for the demolished building subject to the following:	(i)	The demolition must
occur within two years of the payment of the Sewerage Facilities Charge for the
new building.	(ii)	The written application for refund must be made within one
year of said demolition and must be accompanied by proof of demolition
satisfactory to the City Engineer.	The amount of the refund shall be the amount
of monetary credit calculated per Section 64.16.1, Subsection (c), applicable to
the demolished building at the time of sign-off of the Demolition Certificate
but shall not exceed the amount of the charge which has been paid for the new
building on the same lot or parcel.	7.	(Former Subdiv. 6 Renumbered by Ord. No
168,533, Eff. 3/1/93.)   Where payment was made per Section 64.18 and
thereafter a public sewer is constructed to serve such property and the property
is assessed for the construction thereof, the claim must be filed within one
year from the date notice is mailed to the last address of the owner of the land
that the City Council has confirmed the final assessments for said
sewer.	8.	(Former Subdiv. 7  Renumbered by Ord. No 168,533, Eff. 3/1/93.) 
Where payment was made per any of the above sections and such amount was
collected wholly or partially in error, or was in excess of that required by
said sections, the claim must be filed within one year from the date the error
was discovered or should have been discovered by any owner of the property for
which payment was made.	9.	(Former Subdiv. 8 Renumbered by Ord. No 168,533, Eff.
3/1/93.)  Where payment has been made pursuant to Section 64.11.2 or Section
64.16.1 subsequent to December 15, 1981, and sewage from the subject property is
or will be treated in the facilities of a Los Angeles County Sanitation
District, the permittee or person making such payment may apply for a refund of
85% of the fee specified in Section 64.11.2 or the applicable charge specified
in Section 64.11.3. The claims must be filed within one year from the date the
payment is made or within one year from the effective date of the ordinance
adding Subdivision 8 to Subsection (a) of this section, whichever period is
longer.  (Added by Ord. No. 157,145, Eff. 11/22/82.)	10.	Where payment was made
between May 8, 1988 and  June 21, 1991, per Section 64.16.1 or Section 64.18,
and the project was subsequently canceled, the claim must be filed within one
year of the effective date of this ordinance.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,946, Eff.
9/2/93.)	No refund shall be made of money collected pursuant to Section 64.18
hereof, which must be paid to a school district or a department of this City,
other than the Department of Public Works, in accordance with any ordinance of
this City.	(b)	The right to any refund under this Section is payable to the
permittee.  After the time provided in this Section to apply for a refund
expires, the right to a credit for a refund runs with the land, except for
credits that are issued pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (e) of this
Section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	(c)	Where a refund is due
under the provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section or a  refund credit is
due pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (e) of this Section and the refund
or refund credit does not exceed the sum of $25,000, the Board is authorized to
make such refund or refund credit without the necessity of first receiving the
approval of the City Council, and is authorized to cause a demand to be drawn on
the general fund or any other fund in which the fees being refunded may have
been deposited.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	(d)	The provisions
of this section shall not relieve any person from compliance with the provisions
of Sections 363, 376 and 376.1 of the Charter relating to the presentation of
claims prior to the bringing of a suit or action thereon, or be deemed to limit
or qualify the lawful right of any person to bring or maintain any action or
proceeding based upon the general law of this State for any remedy provided by
that law.  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,426, Eff. 9/22/74.)	(e)	(Added by Ord. No.
182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)  The Board is authorized to use refund credits that run
with the land authorized pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (b) of this
Section to offset the increases to the Quality Surcharge Fee (QSF), which
increases begin on the effective date of this Subsection and are imposed
pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision (4) of Subsection D. of Section 64.30,
if all of the following conditions are satisfied:	1.	Payment for which a refund
credit is authorized was made pursuant to Section 64.11.2 or Section 64.16.1,
and the current occupant of the property for which the payment was made is an
SIU;	2.	The SIU is also an owner of the property for which the payment was
made;	3.	The flow, as determined pursuant to the provisions of Section
64.11.3(f), from the property is less than the amount for which SFC payment was
made;	4.	The SIU can demonstrate that the reduced amount of flow identified in
Subdivision 3. of this Subsection was caused by the use of water conservation
practices, pretreatment of discharge, or use of environmentally responsible
practices; and	5.	The SIU, at the time of submission of the written claim to the
City Clerk required by the provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section, is not
delinquent in payment of any monies owed pursuant to any provision of this
Article or Article 4.1.	(f)	The monetary value of a refund credit that may be
offset against QSF fees as authorized pursuant to Subsection (e) of this Section
shall be calculated based on the rate at which the fees for which a refund is
requested were paid.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	(g)	Any refund
credit that is used pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (e) of this Section
to offset QSF fees will be removed from property records, and any future fee
required for the property pursuant to the provisions of Section 64.11.2 or
Section 64.16.1 will be calculated based on the rates in effect at the time the
fee is imposed.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)
