                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BONDED SEWERS – FEES. (§ 64.18)

  BONDED SEWERS – FEES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	An applicant requiring issuance of
a permit to connect to or construct a Special House Connection Sewer or Bonded
Sewer House Connection Sewer must file an application with the Bureau of
Engineering.  The Bureau shall charge and collect, in addition to all other
required fees and charges, the following fee where applicable:	(a)	For
rectangular lots, a fee of $72 for each linear foot of the lot frontage for
which the connection or construction is sought, except that for rectangular lots
that have multiple frontages providing access to sewers, a fee of $72 for each
linear foot of the shortest frontage.	(b)	For lots that are not rectangular, the
Bureau shall calculate the area of the lot for which the connection or
construction is sought, determine the size of a rectangular lot that would be
equal in area, and impose a fee of $72 for each linear foot of frontage of the
equivalent rectangular lot.	(c)	The Bureau of Engineering may reduce the total
fee imposed pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (a) or (b) of this Section
where it determines that the fee would exceed the fee amount charged with
respect to other lots in the same bonded sewer area.	(d)	The provisions of this
Section do not apply to permit applications for a Bonded Sewer House Connection
Sewer where the lot for which the connection is sought was the subject of an
assessment for a public sewer connection at the front, rear or side of the
lot.	Fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be
deposited into the Sewer Construction and Maintenance Fund established pursuant
to the provisions of Section 64.19.2.
