                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LIABILITY INSURANCE AND DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS. (§ 64.15.1)

  LIABILITY INSURANCE AND DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 122,639, Eff. 9/15/62.)	(a)	Liability
Insurance.	1.	Required.  Except as otherwise provided in this article, a permit
required by Section 64.12 under which an excavation, tunnel or the laying of
sewer or storm drain pipe in any public street, public place or public easement
is contemplated, will not be issued until the applicant has filed with the City
Engineer a policy of protective liability insurance in which the City has been
named as insured or coinsured with the permittee. The policy of insurance shall
insure the City and its officers and employees while acting within the scope of
their duties, against all claims arising out of or in connection with the
operations of the permittee, or any contractor or subcontractor of the
permittee, pursuant to the permit.	2.	Amounts.  (Amended by Ord. No. 153,469,
Eff. 6/1/80.)	Bodily Injury 		$250,000 each person
$500,000 each occurrence
$500,000 aggregate products and completed operations	Property Damage	$100,000
each occurrence.
$250,000 aggregate	A combined single limit policy with aggregate limits in the
amount of $1 million will be considered equivalent to the required minimum
limits.	3.	Coverage.  Such policy of insurance shall provide coverage at least
as broad as that provided in the Standard Form approved by the National Bureau
of Casualty Underwriters, together with such endorsements as are required to
cover the risks involved.	(b)	Deposits.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,158, Eff.
10/4/08.)	1.	Required.  Except as otherwise provided in this article, a permit
required by Section 64.12 under which an excavation, tunnel or the laying of
sewer or storm drain pipe in any public street or public easement is
contemplated, will not be issued until the applicant has deposited with the
Board not less than $10,000 in cash which shall remain on deposit with the Board
for not less than six months from the date of the last permit issued to the
depositor thereof.  Such deposit will be held to insure the faithful and proper
performance of the work and the payment of all charges required by Sections
64.12 to 64.22 inclusive, and the Board is hereby empowered to deduct from the
cash deposit all sums due for charges hereunder and for any and all damages
accruing to this City by reason of faulty, defective or incomplete work by the
permittee.	2.	Surety Bond in Lieu of Deposit.  Whenever in this section a cash
bond in the amount of $10,000 or over is required, the applicant may provide in
lieu of such cash deposit, a good and sufficient bond in an amount equal to the
amount of such cash deposit, payable to this City, executed by the applicant as
the principal and by a reliable surety company qualified to do business in
California and the City of Los Angeles, which bond is satisfactory to this
City.  Such bond shall be deposited with and held by the City to insure the
faithful and proper performance of the work and the payment of all charges
required by Sections 64.12 to 64.22 inclusive, upon the same terms as those
required by the cash deposit, in lieu of which, the bond is executed.  The
Board is hereby empowered to demand and receive payment from the bond for all
sums due for charges hereunder and for any and all damages accruing to this City
by reason of faulty, defective or incomplete work by the
permittee. 	3.	Increase in Bond Amount.  On July 1, 2009, the amount set forth
in subsections 64.15.1(b)1. and 64.15.1(b)2. for both the required cash deposit
and surety bond shall increase from $10,000 to $20,000.  On July 1, 2011, the
amounts for both the required cash deposit and surety bond shall increase from
$20,000 to $25,000 and on each July 1 starting in 2012, the amount of both the
required cash deposit and surety bond shall increase annually by the percentage
amount of the increase in the consumer price index for the previous calendar
year rounded up to the nearest $100.  Starting in 2012, all current Bonded
Sewer Contractors shall be notified each year by April 1 of the new bonding
requirements and the need to have a new bond in the correct amount in place by
July 1.
