                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INVESTIGATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY. (§ 64.25)

  INVESTIGATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.	The Board of Public Works or any of its
authorized representatives may make such inspections or investigations as said
Board deems necessary at any reasonable time, in any building, premises or lot
for any of the purposes set forth in this section. No person shall interfere
with, prevent or refuse to permit the entry of said Board or any of its
authorized representatives into or upon any building, premises or lot for any of
the purposes set forth in this section. (Amended by Ord. No. 113,953, Eff.
8/23/59.)	(a)	To determine the size, depth and location of any sewer or storm
drain connection.	(b)	To determine the outlet of any sewer or storm drain
connection by depositing testing materials in any plumbing fixture attached
thereto and flushing the same, if necessary.	(c)	To determine by measurements
and samples the quantity and nature of sewage or waste water being discharged
into any sewer, storm drain or water course.	(d)	To inspect, test, and sample
the discharge of any device used to prevent the discharge into any seer, storm
drain or water course of illegal waste or illegal quantities of waste, such as
floor drains, sand boxes, grease traps or other clarifiers, also, of those
devices used to grind, shred, pulverize, or otherwise treat garbage or
industrial waste, before discharging same into a sewer or storm drain.	(e)	To
determine the location of roof, swimming pool and surface drains, and whether
they are connected to a street gutter, storm drain or sewer.	(f)	To determine
the nature and quantity of flow in any open water course or storm drain.	(g)	To
locate, inspect, test, and sample the discharges to, from and within a PSDS.
(Added by Ord. No. 160,388, Eff. 10/21/85.)
