                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INDUSTRIAL WASTES TREATED BY COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICTS OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY
(CSDLA). (§ 64.30.1)

  INDUSTRIAL WASTES TREATED BY COUNTY SANITATION DISTRICTS OF LOS ANGELES
COUNTY (CSDLA).
	(Amended In Entirety by Ord. No. 173,980, Eff. 7/1/01.)	(a)	Industrial
Wastewater.  For purposes of this section “industrial wastewater” shall
mean all water carried wastes and wastewater of the community excluding domestic
wastewater and uncontaminated water, and shall include all wastewater from any
producing, manufacturing, processing, institutional, commercial, agricultural,
or other operation where the wastewater discharged includes significant
quantities of wastes of nonhuman origin.	(b)	Dischargers in the City whose
Wastewater is Treated by CSDLA.  Dischargers of industrial wastewater whose
wastewater is treated and disposed of in wastewater treatment facilities owned
and operated by the County Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County, and who
are in the City of Los Angeles but not in a County Sanitation District shall
comply with all ordinances and regulations of said districts which would be
applicable to such dischargers if they had been in a district.	(c)	Fees and
Charges.  Such dischargers shall pay, to the districts, charges equivalent to
those imposed by the districts pursuant to the Districts’ Industrial
Wastewater Treatment Surcharge as if the discharge were within a district using
the same sewer system.	(d)	Districts Responsibilities.  The district shall have
the responsibility to bill and serve all such charges. It shall have the right
to sue and collect in its own name any such charges that may be delinquent.
