                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DISPOSITION OF FUNDS. (§ 64.51.13)

  DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.	All Stormwater Pollution Abatement Charge moneys
collected for the City shall be placed and deposited into the Stormwater
Pollution Abatement Fund established by Section 64.51.11 of this Code, such
moneys to be expended for the purposes set forth in Section 64.51.03(a), of this
article to pay for any refunds, billing, collection and administration costs
related to the Stormwater Pollution Abatement Charge and as security and payment
of the principal and interest, premiums, if any, of bonds and other obligations
issued or incurred for storm drain related purposes and to otherwise comply
with, be in accordance with, or be in furtherance of, any provisions of law
relating to the issuance of such bonds or other obligations and the resolutions
under which such bonds or other obligations are issued or incurred. The Board is
hereby authorized to draw demands upon such fund where necessary to pay the Los
Angeles County Tax Collector for its administrative and other costs in
connection with refunds, billing and collecting such Stormwater Pollution
Abatement Charge pursuant to arrangements made as set forth in Section
64.51.07(a) of this article.	Monies collected from waivers pursuant to Chapter
VI, Article 4.4, Section 64.72.02 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code shall be
placed and deposited into the Stormwater Pollution Abatement Fund.  Such monies
shall only be expended to promote regional or alternative solutions for
stormwater pollution prevention.  (Para. Added by Ord. No. 173,494, Eff.
9/14/00.)
