                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ENFORCEMENT. (§ 64.70.07)

  ENFORCEMENT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,176, Eff. 10/1/98.)	A.	Criminal
Sanctions.	1.	Misdemeanors.  Every violation of this article is punishable as a
misdemeanor unless such violation or failure to comply is declared therein to be
an infraction.  Misdemeanors shall be punishable as follows:	(a)	A misdemeanor
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in
the County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.	2.	Infractions.  Violation of any provision of this
article that is provided herein to be an infraction shall be punishable as
follows:	(a)	Every violation that is charged as an infraction is punishable by a
fine not to exceed $50.00 for the first violation, $100.00 for the second
violation of the same provision within one year of the first violation, and
$250.00 for the third violation of the same provision within one year of the
second violation.  Any subsequent violation(s) of the same provision, occurring
any time after the third violation of the same provision, shall be punishable as
a misdemeanor.	B.	Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance.  In addition to the
penalties provided in this section, any condition caused or permitted to exist
in violation of any provision of this article shall be deemed a public nuisance,
and may be summarily abated by the City.	C.	Continuing Violation(s).  Unless
otherwise provided, a person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
each and every day a violation of this article is committed, continued or
permitted by the person and shall be punishable accordingly as herein provided.
