                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND ENFORCE STORMWATER POLLUTION CONTROL MEASURES. (§
64.72.04)

  AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND ENFORCE STORMWATER POLLUTION CONTROL MEASURES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,494, Eff. 9/14/00.)	(A)	Violations.  Notwithstanding
the provisions of the grading or building permit, non-compliance with any
provisions of this section and, or the required Covenant &#038; Agreement
pursuant to Chapter IX Article I Section 91.106.4.1 Exception 15, shall be
considered an infraction and may be punishable in accordance with Section
64.70.07, Subsection A, Subdivision 2 of this article.  Each day of
non-compliance may be considered a separate violation.	(B) Inspection. 
Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce or verify compliance
with any stormwater control provision, as imposed by this article, Chapter IX of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code Article 1 Section 91.106.4.1 Exception 14, and
Chapter IX Article 1 Section 91.106.4.1 Exception 15, the Board of Public Works
or its representatives are hereby authorized to enter such property at any
reasonable time to inspect for compliance with best management practices and
perform any duty imposed by this article and the provisions of Section
91.106.4.1 Exception 14  and 15 of this Code, or other applicable law, provided
that:	1.	If such property be occupied, he/she shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry explaining his/her reasons
therefor; and	2.	If such property be unoccupied, he/she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the property and request entry, explaining his/her reasons therefor.  If
such entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or other person
having charge or control of the property cannot be found after due diligence,
the Board of Public Works or its representatives shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure lawful entry and inspect the property.
