                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF CORRECTION ARISING FROM UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE. (§ 64.70.09)

  LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF CORRECTION ARISING FROM UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)	In addition to any fine or penalty
imposed, whenever any discharger introduces or causes the introduction of
non-storm water or any pollutant in violation of this article and the discharge
results in a violation of any State or Federal laws or regulations, damages
public property, or adversely affects a storm drain system in the City of Los
Angeles or receiving waters, the discharge shall be deemed a public nuisance and
the discharger shall be liable to the City for reasonable costs necessary to
correct that discharge, detriment or adverse effect, including, but not limited
to labor, material, inspection, transportation, overhead, and incidental
expenses associated with the corrective action or the clean-up of the pollutant
and its effects.	All costs incurred pursuant to this section shall be a personal
obligation against the discharger and any owner of any property that is the
source of any discharge, recoverable by the City in an action before any court
of competent jurisdiction.  These costs shall include an amount equal to 40
percent of the cost to perform the actual work, but not less than the sum of
$100.00, to cover the City’s costs for administering any contract and
supervising the work required.  In addition to this personal obligation and all
other remedies provided by law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or
charge, including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in
relation to the provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.
