                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GARBAGE RECEPTACLES SPECIFICATIONS. (§ 66.02)

  GARBAGE RECEPTACLES SPECIFICATIONS.	It shall be the duty of every owner,
manager, or person in possession, charge or control of any boarding house,
restaurant, hotel, apartment, or eating house, and every person occupying a
dwelling or flat within the City to provide, and at all times to keep portable
vessels, tanks or receptacles for holding garbage. Each vessel, tank or
receptacle shall be constructed nonabsorbent, watertight, vector-resistant,
durable, easily cleanable, and designed for safe handling and so constructed so
as to contain not less than three or more than sixteen gallons and provided with
handles. Each such vessel, tank or receptacle and its cover shall be made of
such materials as may be approved for such use by the Board and by the City
Council. The cover shall not be removed except when necessary to place garbage
therein or to remove garbage therefrom. Each vessel, tank or receptacle and its
cover shall be kept cleaned on the outside from accumulating grease and
decomposing material and shall be of an adequate size and in sufficient numbers
to contain, without overflowing, all the garbage that a household or other
establishment generates within the designated removal period. Each such vessel,
tank or receptacle when filled shall not exceed reasonable lifting weights for
an average physically fit individual except where mechanical loading systems are
used. Any such vessel, tank or receptacle shall comply with Part 1301 of Title
16 of the Code of Federal Regulations to the extent that such Part is applicable
to any such vessel, tank or receptacle. (Amended by Ord. No. 154,349, Eff.
10/11/80.)
