                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

USED CONTAINER SALVAGE YARD. (§ 66.31)

  USED CONTAINER SALVAGE YARD. (Added by Ord. No.
127,508 Eff. 6/29/64.) (a) All areas of container salvage yards
used for the purpose of cleaning used containers shall be paved
with concrete or other similarly impervious, easily cleaned paving
material. Areas where liquid cleaning processes are employed shall
be sloped to drains. Drainage facilities shall be constructed and
maintained in accordance with the Industrial Waste Permit
regulations as set forth in this chapter. (b) Used containers in
which there is food residue or other such material which may
attract rodents or insects shall not be stored in any used
container salvage yard for longer than twenty-four (24) hours
unless such container has been thoroughly cleaned and drained so as
to remove all such used containers and stored in a fully enclosed
rodent and fly-proof structure or storage facility. (c) “Used
Container” shall mean used tin cans, boxes, crates, barrels, drums,
cartons, bottles or any other container which contains or may
contain rodent or insect attracting material. (d) “�� shall mean
any establishment, lot, yard, place or area where used containers
are repaired, processed, cleaned, bought, sold or stored or
otherwise salvaged for further use, including the sale of usable
containers to a container salvage yard resulting from salvage
operations conducted at refuse dumps. Provided, however, that
salvage container yard shall not include any disposal business or
premises where containers are permanently disposed of, such as
refuse dumps, or businesses or premises where containers are
converted into scrap and not salvaged for use. PRIVATE SOLID WASTE
HAULERS AND RECYCLERS
