                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COMPLIANCE PERMIT TERMS AND CONDITIONS. (§ 66.32.4)

  COMPLIANCE PERMIT TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 181,519, Eff. 2/12/11, Oper.
1/1/11.)	(a)	The City shall not limit the number of AB 939 Compliance Permits
issued.	(b)	All AB 939 Compliance Permits shall be subject to the terms and
conditions specified in the Permit, and to all other applicable federal, state
and local laws and regulations, including the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	(c)	The City has the right to revise or add to the requirements of the AB
939 Compliance Permit to the extent permitted by law.	(d)	The City may revoke or
suspend any AB 939 Compliance Permit as provided in the terms of the Permit, by
this Code, or as otherwise allowed by law.	(e)	Inspection and Site
Visits.	(1)	The Director of the Bureau of Sanitation, or the Director’s
designee, shall have the right at any time during normal business hours to
inspect the records of any Permittee for the purpose of determining compliance
with AB 939 and other reporting requirements, to determine proper calculation
and payment of fees, and to verify the lawful disposition of Construction and
Demolition Waste.  The City will provide Permittee reasonable notice of its
intention to inspect the Permittee’s records.	(2)	The Director of the Bureau
of Sanitation, or the Director’s designee, shall have the right at any time to
conduct site visits to determine compliance with Section 66.32 through 66.32.3,
including, but not limited to, inspections of construction or demolition sites
within the City to verify diversion requirements of Subsection (b) of Section
66.32.1.	(f)	The Bureau of Sanitation shall have the authority to administer all
provisions of Sections 66.32 through 66.32.5, and to enforce the provisions by
any and all lawful means.
