                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BILLING, COLLECTION AND PAYMENT OF CHARGES. (§ 66.43)

  BILLING, COLLECTION AND PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,293, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	(a)	The collection
of the charges imposed under this article shall be under the direction,
supervision, and control of the Director of Finance.	(b)	The Director of Finance
shall arrange for the billing and collection of, and accounting for, the charges
imposed under this article through and by available facilities of the Department
of Water and Power insofar as possible. The Director of the Office of
Administrative and Research Services shall arrange for the payment to the
Department of Water and Power of its costs of such services. To the extent the
billing and collection by the Department of Water and Power is not deemed
possible or practical by the Director of Finance, separate billing and
collection services at reasonable intervals shall be provided by the Director of
Finance.	(c)	The charges imposed under this article shall be billed to and paid
by the customer in whose name the electric meter serving each dwelling unit is
listed upon the records of the Department of Water and Power, or, in the absence
of such listing, as may be determined by the Director of Finance with the
assistance of the Department of Public Works.	(d)	The duty to collect the
charges imposed under this article from each customer billed by the Department
of Water and Power shall commence with the first billing submitted by said
Department to each customer on or after the operative date of this article or as
soon thereafter as administratively possible.	(e)	The charges imposed under this
article shall be billed by the Department of Water and Power in accordance with
its regular billing practices, shall be added to and included on each applicable
electric bill, as the case may be, and shall be due and payable to the City of
Los Angeles through the Department of Water and Power at the time and in the
manner of payment of said electric bill, and other charges made
thereon.	(f)	Where the Department of Water and Power does not supply electricity
to a individual dwelling unit to which the City furnishes household refuse
collection services, the customer liable for payment of the charges, as provided
for in this article, shall be billed separately by the Director of Finance with
the assistance of the Department of Public Works.	(g)	All bills for the charges
imposed under this article are due and payable upon presentation. Bills not paid
within sixty (60) days after the date of presentation shall be deemed
delinquent.	(h)	Whenever the Director of Finance determines that a customer
billed has deliberately withheld, failed or refused to pay all or any part or
portion of the charges imposed under this article billed to said customer, or
has failed to pay charges, or whenever the Director of Finance deems it to be in
the best interest of the City, the Director of Finance shall serve notice on the
customer billed of his or her delinquency.	Whenever the Director of Finance
determines that a customer billed as provided for in this article has
deliberately withheld, failed or refused to pay all or any part or portion of
the charges imposed under this article billed to said customer by the Department
of Water and Power, or has failed to pay said charges, or whenever the Director
of Finance deems it to be in the best interest of the City, the Director of
Finance may relieve the Department of Water and Power of any obligation it may
have to bill or collect, or both, said charges from said customer billed, and
assume the billing or collection, or both, thereof for the periods involved. If
the Director of Finance, for whatever reason, assumes from the Department of
Water and Power the direct billing or collection, or both, of the charges
imposed under this article the Director of Finance may at said time so notify
the customer billed and notify the customer of his or her delinquency, if such
be the case.	The notice in either event shall be served on the customer billed
by handing it to him or her personally, or by deposit in the United States mail,
postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the customer billed at the address to
which billing was made by the Department of Water and Power, or, if said address
has been changed or the customer was not billed by the Department of Water and
Power, then to his or her last known address. If the customer billed is
delinquent and fails to pay the Director of Finance within fifteen (15) days
from the date of service of the notice upon him or her which shall be the date
of mailing if service is not accomplished by personal delivery, a penalty of
twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the delinquent charges imposed under
this article, but not less than $5.00, shall thereupon be imposed. The penalty
shall be required to be paid in addition to all billings for the sanitation
equipment charge.	(i)	Whenever a payment mailed to the City is received after
the time prescribed in this article for the receipt thereof, the Director of
Finance or the Department of Water and Power, as the case may be, may accept
proof that there had been a timely deposit thereof in the United States mail and
that the no delinquency or penalty is applicable thereto.
