                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONSTRUCTION OF SIGNS ON STREETS OR OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY. (§ 67.02)

  CONSTRUCTION OF SIGNS ON STREETS OR OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY.
	(Added by Ord. No. 78,537, Eff. 11/8/37.)	(a)	No person shall erect, construct,
or maintain or cause or permit to be erected or constructed or maintained any
outdoor advertising structure, accessory sign, post sign or advertising statuary
or any other sign or sign device upon any sidewalk, street, alley or other
public place or to paint, paste, print, nail, tack or otherwise fasten any card,
banner, handbill, sign, poster or advertisement or notice of any kind, or cause
the same to be done on any curbstone, lamppost, pole, hydrant, bridge wall or
tree upon any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place, or upon any
private property without the lawful permission of the property owner or
authorized agent, except as may be permitted or required by ordinance or law.
(Par. designated (a) by Ord. No. 152,930, Eff. 10/19/79.)	(b)	The provisions of
Subsection (a) of this section, however, shall not apply, to transit shelters
exempted by the City Council from said provisions. (Added by Ord. No. 152,930,
Eff. 10/19/79.)	(c)	The provisions of Subsection (a) of this section, however,
shall not apply to existing structurally attached advertising signs in areas of
the public way dedicated under Planning or Zoning actions or Section 12.37 of
this Code where the dedicated area is not presently utilized by the City for
street purposes.  In such cases, the sign must comply with all provisions of
Chapter IX, Article 1, Division 62 of this Code (LAMC Section 91.6201, et seq.)
and observe all Americans with Disabilities Act (A.D.A.), visibility and safety
regulations.  In addition the property owner must obtain a Revocable Permit
from the Board of Public Works for allowing the sign to remain in the dedicated
area.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,419, Eff. 4/16/95.)
