                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPLICATION FOR PERMIT – FEES – RENEWAL. (§ 68.03)

  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT – FEES – RENEWAL.	(a)	No bench permit shall be
issued except upon written application made upon a form prescribed by the Board,
showing the proposed location of each bench, the advertising, if any, to appear
thereon and such other information as the Board may require	(b)	Detailed plans
and specifications of each bench shall be supplied by the applicant.	(c)	Each
application for an original permit or a relocation permit shall be accompanied
by an affidavit of the applicant reciting that the applicant has caused the
owner or person in lawful possession or control of the property abutting upon
the public street at the place where the bench is proposed to be located to be
personally served with a notice on a form prescribed by the Board of Public
Works that the applicant will file an application for a permit. The form
prescribed by the Board shall contain a statement thereon that the person
receiving such notice may object to the location of the bench.	(d)	Each
application must be signed by the owner of the bench or benches for which the
permits are requested and must be accompanied by an inspection fee for each such
bench. The inspection fee shall be determined and adopted in the same manner as
provided in Section 12.37-I, 1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for
establishing fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,675, Eff. 5/11/90.)	(e)	If the
application is granted, an application fee shall be collected at the time of
permit issuance for each bench for which a permit is issued. The application fee
shall be determined and adopted in the same manner as provided in Section
12.37-I, 1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for establishing fees.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 165,675, Eff. 5/11/90.)	(f)	Any permittee shall be responsible for
the removal of graffiti from any bench installed pursuant to such permit and the
failure to so remove such graffiti upon request of the Department shall be
grounds for revocation of the permit.  (Former second Subsec. (e) relettered by
Ord. No. 168,997, Eff. 9/17/93.)	(g)	Each permit shall be revokable provided
however it shall expire on the 30th day of June next following the date of
issuance unless earlier revoked or renewed. A fee for each bench shall be
charged for each annual renewal of the permit. Application for a renewal must be
made prior to the expiration date and must be accompanied by a renewal fee. The
renewal fee shall be determined and adopted in the same manner as provided in
section 12.37-I, 1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for establishing the
fees.  (Former Subsec. (f) relettered by Ord. No. 168,997, Eff.
9/17/93.)	(h)	Any permittee desiring to change permanently the location of a
permit and bench in accordance with the provisions of Section 68.02 of this Code
shall pay a fee of $34.00.  (Former Subsec. (g) relettered by Ord. No. 168,997,
Eff. 9/17/93.)	(i)	Any permittee desiring to change permanently the location of
a permit and bench in accordance with the provisions of Section 68.02 of this
Code shall pay a fee of $1.00 for each such transfer of location to and
including December 31, 1959, thereafter said fee shall be $1.50. (Former Subsec.
(h) relettered by Ord. No. 168,997, Eff. 9/17/93.)
