                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DANGEROUS VESSELS, SUNKEN VESSELS, OR OBSTRUCTION OF CHANNELS. (§ 69.17)

  DANGEROUS VESSELS, SUNKEN VESSELS, OR OBSTRUCTION OF CHANNELS.	(a)	Whenever a
vessel is sunk, accidentally or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the owner of
such vessel to mark it immediately by a buoy or beacon by day and by a lantern
or light by night and to maintain such markings until the sunken vessel or
obstruction is removed, and the neglect or failure of such owner to do so shall
be unlawful. The owner of such sunken vessel shall immediately commence removal
of said vessel and prosecute the removal diligently to completion.	(b)	Whenever
the navigation of any waters within the entrance channel shall be obstructed or
endangered by any sunken vessel or other obstruction the vessel or obstruction
shall be subject to removal, sale, or other disposition by the Director and may
be treated as found property and subject to the provisions of the Civil Code.
The owner or owners of such vessel or property causing such obstruction or
damage shall be liable to the County for all costs incident to said removal and
disposition, and shall further be liable to any person who may be damaged as a
proximate cause of said sunken vessel or other obstruction. Neither the County
nor the City of Los Angeles, their employees, agents or officers, shall be
liable for damages of any nature whatsoever arising out of or in any way
connected with the removal, sale, or disposition of such sunken vessel or other
property.	(c)	Any vessel that may enter the entrance channel in a disabled
condition, or any vessel within said channel, which may for any reason be
rendered disabled, shall immediately become subject to the orders and directions
of the Director and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to
comply with his orders or directions with regard to the disposition of such
vessel.
