                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SANITATION REGULATIONS. (§ 69.21)

  SANITATION REGULATIONS.	(a)	It shall be unlawful for a person to throw,
discard, discharge or deposit any refuse, trash, sewage or matter of any
description into the waters of the entrance channel or upon the contiguous
lands.	(b)	A person shall not discharge or deposit or permit to pass into the
waters of the entrance channel any coal, tar, oil, gasoline, sludge or residuary
products of coal petroleum, asphalt, bitumen or other carbonaceous material or
substance nor any varnish, paint or similar products. Any accidental spill of
said materials or products shall be immediately reported to the Harbor Master
and it shall be a violation of this article to fail to do so.	(c)	Any person who
causes such accidentally spill of coal, tar, oil, gasoline, sludge or residuary
products thereof, or of varnish, paint, or similar products, shall take all
reasonable and appropriate steps to remove such material, or as much thereof as
may be possible, from the waters of the entrance channel.	(d)	A person shall not
place or deposit and subsequently abandon any  dead animals, fish, shell fish,
bait or other putrefying matter on or along the jetties, breakwater, vessels, or
land, nor shall a person throw or deposit any animal carcass in the
waters.	(e)	A person shall not clean fish on the jetties, breakwater, land or
waters.	(f)	No person shall operate the toilet fixtures of a vessel within the
entrance channel at any time so as to cause or permit to pass or to be
discharged into the waters of said channel any excrement, sewage, or other waste
matter or contaminant of any kind.
