                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES UPON AREAS ABUTTING THE ENTRANCE CHANNEL. (§ 69.23)

  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES UPON AREAS ABUTTING THE ENTRANCE CHANNEL.	Except upon
written permission of the Director, which may be given for special events, no
person shall:	(a)	Be present upon or loiter upon either of the jetties adjacent
to the entrance channel between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
next day.	(b)	Light or maintain any open fire upon either of the jetties
adjacent to the entrance channel.	(c)	Throw or propel any object at or toward
any vessel or into the waters of the entrance channel from said
jetties.	(d)	Remove, take, injure, mutilate, destroy, or otherwise damage any
rock, wood, plants, trees, or other object whether natural or artificial, which
is located upon said jetties or upon the breakwater.	(e)	Paint, draw, write, or
otherwise mark upon any of the rocks constituting a portion of said jetties or
breakwater, or attach thereto any sign, card, display, or other material
intended to communicate a message, idea, name, or otherwise, to any person
viewing said jetties or breakwater; except that the Director or Harbor Master
may place such signs upon such jetties or breakwater as necessary to direct
traffic or warn persons of their presence.	(f)	No vehicles shall be driven upon
said jetties except in such places as are improved for the driving of such
vehicles. Should any vehicle be parked upon said jetty in a place not so
improved, and should said vehicle be unattended, the Director or the deputy may
remove such vehicle to a nearby location where parking of vehicles is permitted
and the cost of such removal, parking, and storage shall be charged to the owner
of said vehicle.
