                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY OF DESIGNATED EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION TO MAKE
ARRESTS AND ISSUE CITATIONS. (§ 71.01.1)

  AUTHORITY OF DESIGNATED EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION TO MAKE
ARRESTS AND ISSUE CITATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,901, Eff. 5/31/01.)	(a)	The Taxicab Administrator and
the Senior Transportation Engineer assigned to franchise regulation functions
shall have the power, authority and immunity of a public officer or employee, as
set forth in the Penal Code of the State of California, Section 836.5, to make
arrests without a warrant whenever he or she has reasonable cause to believe
that the person to be arrested has committed a misdemeanor or an infraction in
his or her presence which is a violation of this article, or of any ordinance of
the City of Los Angeles or penal law of the State relating to such matters as
public transportation and parking control, and, in addition, all violations set
forth in Section 80.01.1.	(b)	The Chief Transportation Investigators, Senior
Transportation Investigators and Transportation Investigators shall have the
immunity, authority and powers of arrest of a peace officer pursuant to the
California Penal Code Section 830.7(h) to enforce any law of this State or any
ordinance of this Code pertaining to matters under the jurisdiction of the
Department of Transportation.	(c)	The above designated employees shall also be
authorized to issue citations for the various offenses under their jurisdiction
and the cited persons shall be subject to either administrative hearings and
penalties (for Board Order violations) or as provided for in the Penal Code
Sections 853.5 and/or 853.6. (for Infractions and Misdemeanors).	(d)	Each of the
above designated employees shall carry upon his or her person a metallic badge,
of a size and design to be determined as provided in Sec 52.32 of this Code,
while performing his or her respective duties applicable to Chapters VII and
VIII of the Municipal Code.
