                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REQUIREMENTS OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY. (§ 71.12)

  REQUIREMENTS OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 161,493, Eff. 8/11/86.)	(a)	The applicant shall have the
burden of proof to establish by clear and convincing evidence that public
convenience and necessity requires the operation of the vehicle for which the
permit application was made.	No vehicle permit for the operation of any vehicle
defined in Section 71.00 shall be granted until the Board, after a public
hearing, conducted in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the
Board, determines that the applicant has presented the necessary evidence to
justify the issuance of such vehicle permit.	Evidence of public convenience and
necessity shall not be necessary for the granting of the same number of permits
held by the applicant under the same name and color scheme on the date
prescribed by the Department for the expiration of permits, and said permits
shall be classed as renewals and shall be granted automatically on the filing of
an application unless applicant violates other provisions of this article. In
addition, evidence of public convenience and necessity shall not be necessary
for granting of vehicle permits for vehicles operated pursuant to any government
grant program provided, however, that such vehicles are dedicated to such
program use.	Such authority shall not be used in support of an application for
authority to operate any other type of service and such authority shall cease
whenever the government grant program is terminated.	(b)	No franchise for the
operation of any vehicle defined in Section 71.00 shall be granted except
pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 through Article
13 inclusive of Chapter 1, Division 13 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code,
which prescribes the procedure for the granting of franchises, and the Board
shall consider public convenience and necessity prior to making its
recommendation to Council on any application for such franchise.
