                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INSURANCE OR BOND REQUIRED. (§ 71.14)

  INSURANCE OR BOND REQUIRED.	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,068, Eff.
11/18/94.)  Before any vehicle permit or franchise is issued for any vehicle
mentioned in Section 71.00, the operator of the vehicle shall file with the
Department, and  shall thereafter keep in full force and effect a policy of
insurance in such form and amounts as the  Board in consultation with the City
Administrative Officer’s Risk Management Section may from time to time require
but not less than the appropriate sums specified in the following table.  Such
insurance shall be written by an insurance company authorized to do business in
the State of California, insuring the operator against liability for any loss or
damage that may result to any persons or property from the operation of such
vehicle:
  
    
      
        Seating Capacity of Vehicle
      
      
        For Bodily Injury to or Death of One Person
      
      
        For Bodily Injury to or Death of More Than One Person in Any One
Accident
      
      
        For Loss or Damage to Property in Any One Accident
      
    
    
      
        1-7 passengers
      
      
        $100,000
      
      
        $300,000
      
      
        $50,000
      
    
    
      
        8-12 passengers
      
      
        100,000
      
      
        350,000
      
      
        100,000
      
    
    
      
        13-20 passengers
      
      
        100,000
      
      
        450,000
      
      
        100,000
      
    
    
      
        21-30 passengers
      
      
        100,000
      
      
        500,000
      
      
        100,000
      
    
    
      
        Over 30 passengers
      
      
        100,000
      
      
        600,000
      
      
        100,000
      
    
  
	EXCEPTION:	Operators of non-motorized vehicles shall maintain a policy of
insurance for public liability and property damage in amounts to be determined
by the Board.	Such operator may, in lieu of the aforesaid policy of insurance,
file with the Department a bond in such form as the Department may require,
approved by the City Attorney, executed by a corporate surety authorized to
conduct business under the laws of the State of California as a surety in a
sufficient amount which bond shall be conditioned upon the payment of all final
judgments which may be rendered against such operator for damages on account of
injuries to any person or property from the operation of such vehicle, and which
bond shall be in the amount specified in the following table, according to the
size and number of motor vehicles permitted or franchised.
  
    
      
        Number of Vehicles Owned or Offered For Hire
      
      
        Amount of Bond as to Vehicles Having a Seating Capacity of Less than 11
Passengers
      
      
        Amount of Bond as to Vehicles Having a Seating Capacity of More than 10
Passengers
      
    
    
      
        1
      
      
        $220,000.00
      
      
        $440,000.00
      
    
    
      
        2-5
      
      
        300,000.00
      
      
        600,000.00
      
    
    
      
        6-20
      
      
        400,000.00
      
      
        800,000.00
      
    
    
      
        21-60
      
      
        500,000.00
      
      
        1,000,000.00
      
    
    
      
        61-100
      
      
        600,000.00
      
      
        1,200,000.00
      
    
    
      
        Over 100
      
      
        700,000.00
      
      
        1,400,000.00
      
    
  
	(b)	In the event of the return unsatisfied of any execution issued on any
judgment rendered against such operator for damages on amount of injury to
person or property occasioned by such motor vehicle, such operator shall, within
ten days after the return of such execution unsatisfied, pay such judgment or
increase the amount of his bond by the amount thereof, and failing to do so, he
shall forthwith cease his operations until such judgment is paid or such bond is
so increased.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)	(c)	All policies or
bonds shall contain a provision for continuing liability thereunder up to the
full amount thereof notwithstanding any recovery thereon.	(d)	If an operator has
net assets of at least $500,000.00, he/she may file with the Department a
current balance sheet certified by a certified public accountant, and if such
balance sheet be approved by the Board, and if the Board shall find that such
person has net assets of at least $500,000.00, as aforesaid, and has stipulated
in writing to meet all other conditions prescribed by the Board, after Board’s
consideration of recommendations of the City’s Risk Manager, as required for
self-insurance, then no policy of liability insurance or bond need be filed by
such operator; subject, however, to the provisions of Subsection (e) of this
section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)	(e)	Any operator
electing to file a balance sheet in lieu of a policy of liability insurance or
bond as hereinabove provided shall thereafter file with the Department, at such
period or periods as may be prescribed by the Board from time to time, but not
less than annually, current balance sheets certified to by a certified public
accountant. The Board may at any time make a further investigation of the net
assets of any such person, and whenever the Board find that such person does not
appear to have net assets of at least $500,000, as aforesaid, or has not
complied with other provisions required as conditions of self-insurance, the
Board may revoke the authority of such person to file balance sheets in lieu of
a policy of liability insurance or bond, as aforesaid, and shall require such
person immediately to file with the City a policy of liability insurance or bond
as hereinabove required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)	(f)	No
person shall operate any vehicle described in Section 71.00 unless there is a
policy or bond on file in full force and effect as provided by this section or
there is a current balance sheet on file with the Department approved by the
Board as aforesaid, and such person is in compliance with all other Board
requirements for self-insurance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 162,615, Eff.
8/16/87.)	(g)	Any operator may file with the Department such combination of
policy of insurance and bond as will afford the public protection at least
equivalent to the insurance specified above with respect to the payment of
judgments obtained against said operator. Such filing shall be subject to
approval by the City Attorney.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)
