                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TAXIMETERS. (§ 71.22)

  TAXIMETERS.	(a)	No owner operating any taxicab shall operate such vehicle
unless it is equipped with a taximeter of such type and design as has been
accepted by the Department of Agriculture. Every owner using any taximeter shall
at all times keep such meter accurate as established by order as adopted by the
California Department of Agriculture.	(b)	Any inspector of the Department of
Transportation or peace officer is authorized to remove any vehicle equipped
with an inaccurate taximeter from the streets until said taximeter shall have
been correctly adjusted.  (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper.
2/25/79.)	(c)	Except as hereinafter otherwise provided all taxicabs shall base
their charges on taximeters at rates established by the Board and all taximeters
shall be placed so that the reading dial showing the amount to be charged shall
be well lighted and readily discernible by the passenger riding in such
taxicab.	(d)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,301, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The
Board, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Los Angeles
Administrative Code, may, by resolution, establish flat or mileage rates to be
charged to points beyond taxicab service areas, said rates to be charged in
addition to or in lieu of the amount shown on such taximeter.	(e)	If rates are
so established by the Board, the per-mile charge shall be conspicuously posted
in each taxicab, and shall be charged when applicable. Payment of a zone rate,
when applicable, shall entitle such passenger to be transported to any location
within such zone.	(f)	No operator of any taxicab, upon receiving payment of a
fare as indicated by the taximeter thereon, or as determined by a zone rate
established by the Board shall refuse to give a receipt upon the request of any
passenger making said payment.
