                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MODIFICATIONS TO ASCE 7. (§ 91.1616)

  MODIFICATIONS TO ASCE 7.
	(Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)91.1616.1. General. 
The text of ASCE 7 shall be modified as indicated in this Section.  Modify ASCE
7, Section 12.2.3.1 Exception 3 to read as follows:	3.	Detached one and two
family dwellings up to two stories in height of light frame
construction.91.1616.2. The text of ASCE 7 shall be modified as indicated in
this Section.  Modify ASCE 7, Table 12.8-2 by adding the following:
  
    
      
        Structure Type 
      
      
        Ct
      
      
        x
      
    
    
      
        Eccentrically braced steel frames and buckling-restrained braced frames
      
      
        0.03
        (0.0731 )a
      
      
        0.75
      
    
  
91.1616.3. General.  The text of ASCE 7 shall be modified as indicated in this
Section. Modify ASCE 7, Section 12.8.7 by amending Equation 12.8-16 as
follows:	θ = Px Δ I / Vx hsx Cd	(12.8-16)91.1616.4. General.  The text of
ASCE 7, Section 12.11.2.2.3 is modified to read as follows:	12.11.2.2.3. Wood
Diaphragms.  In wood diaphragms, the continuous ties shall be in addition to
the diaphragm sheathing.  Anchorage shall not be accomplished by use of toe
nails or nails subject to withdrawal nor shall wood ledgers or framing be used
in cross-grain bending or cross-grain tension.  The diaphragm sheathing shall
not be considered effective as providing ties or struts required by this
Section.	For wood diaphragms supporting concrete or masonry walls, wood
diaphragms shall comply with the following when structures assigned to seismic
Design Category D, E, or F:	1.	The spacing of continuous ties shall not exceed
40 feet.  Added chords of diaphragms may be used to form subdiaphragms to
transmit the anchorage forces to the main continuous crossties.	2.	The maximum
diaphragm shear used to determine the depth of the subdiaphragm shall not exceed
75% of the maximum diaphragm shear.91.1616.5. General.  The text of ASCE 7,
Section 12.12.4 is modified to read as follows:	12.12.4. Deformation
Compatibility for Seismic Design Category D through F.  For structures assigned
to Seismic Design Category D, E, or F, every structural component not included
in the seismic force-resisting system in the direction under consideration shall
be designed to be adequate for the gravity load effects and the seismic forces
resulting from displacement to the design story drift (D) as determined in
accordance with Section 12.8.6 (see also Section 12.12.1).	EXCEPTION: 
Reinforced concrete frame members not designed as part of the seismic
force-resisting system shall comply with Section 21.9 of ACI 318.  	Where
determining the moments and shears induced in components that are not included
in the seismic force-resisting system in the direction under consideration, the
stiffening effects of adjoining rigid structural and nonstructural elements
shall be considered and a rational value of member and restraint stiffness shall
be used.	When designing the diaphragm to comply with the requirements stated
above, the return walls and fins/canopies at entrances shall be considered. 
Seismic compatibility with the diaphragm shall be provided by either seismically
isolating the element or by attaching the element and integrating its load into
the diaphragm.
