                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEEP FOUNDATIONS.. (§ 91.1810)

  DEEP FOUNDATIONS..
	(Added by Ord. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	Section 1810 of the CBC is adopted by
reference, except Sections 1810.3.1.5, 1810.3.2.4, 1810.3.3.1.4, and 1810.3.10.4
of the CBC are not adopted and in lieu Sections 91.1810.3.1.5, 91.1810.3.2.4,
91.1810.3.3.1.4 and 91.1810.3.10.4 are added.91.1810.3.1.5. Helical Piles. 
Helical piles shall be designed and manufactured in accordance with accepted
engineering practice to resist all stresses induced by installation into the
ground and service loads.  Helical piles shall not be used for support of new
structures.  Helical piles may be used to underpin foundations of existing
structures or retrofit or remediate deficient foundations of existing
structures.  Helical piles shall not be used to resist any horizontal loads.
 91.1810.3.2.4. Timber.  Timber deep foundation elements shall be designed as
piles or poles in accordance with AF&#038;PA NDS. Round timber elements shall
conform to ASTM D 25. Sawn timber elements shall conform to DOC PS-20.  Timber
deep foundation shall not be used in structures assigned to Seismic Design
Category D, E, or F.91.1810.3.3.1.4. Allowable Frictional Resistance.  The
assumed frictional resistance developed by any uncased cast-in-place deep
foundation element shall not exceed one-sixth of the bearing value of the soil
material at minimum depth as set forth in CBC Table 1806.2, up to a maximum of
500 psf (24 kPa), unless a greater value is allowed by the Department on the
basis of a geotechnical investigation as specified in Section 1803 or a greater
value is substantiated by a load test in accordance with CBC Section
1810.3.3.1.2.  Frictional resistance and bearing resistance shall not be
assumed to act simultaneously.91.1810.3.10.4. Seismic Reinforcement.  For
structures assigned to Seismic Design Category C, a permanent steel casing shall
be provided from the top of the micropile down to the point of zero curvature.
For structures assigned to Seismic Design Category D, E or F, the micropile
shall be considered as an alternative system in accordance with Section
91.104.2.6 of this Code. The alternative system design, supporting documentation
and test data shall be submitted to the Department for review and approval.
