                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FLOOD LOADS. (§ 91.1612)

  FLOOD LOADS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	Section 1612 of the CBC is adopted by
reference, except CBC Section 1612.5 is not adopted and in lieu Section
91.1612.5 is added.  91.1612.5. Flood Hazard Documentation.  The following
documentation shall be prepared and sealed by a registered design professional
and submitted to the Department:	1. 	For construction in flood hazard areas not
subject to high-velocity wave action:	1.1. 	The elevation of the lowest floor,
including the basement member.	1.2.	For fully enclosed areas below the design
flood elevation where provisions to allow for the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters do not meet the minimum requirements in Section 2.6.2.1 of ASCE 24,
construction documents shall include a statement that the design will provide
for equalization of hydrostatic flood forces in accordance with Section 2.6.2.2
of ASCE 24.	1.3. 	For dry floodproofed nonresidential buildings, construction
documents shall include a statement that the dry floodproofing is designed in
accordance with ASCE 24.	2. 	For construction in flood hazard areas subject to
high-velocity wave action:	2.1. 	The elevation of the bottom of the lowest
horizontal structural.	2.2. 	Construction documents shall include a statement
that the building is designed in accordance with ASCE 24, including that the
pile or column foundation and building or structure to be attached thereto is
designed to be anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement due
to the effects of wind and flood loads acting simultaneously on all building
components, and other load requirements of Chapter 16.2.3. For breakaway walls
designed to resist a nominal load of less than 10 psf (0.48 kN/m2) or more than
20 psf (0.96 kN/m2), construction documents shall include a statement that the
breakaway wall is designed in accordance with ASCE 24.
