                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ORGANIZATION AND ENFORCEMENT. (§ 91.104)

  ORGANIZATION AND ENFORCEMENT.91.104.1.  Creation of the Department. 
(Repealed by Ord. No. 173,159, Eff. 5/7/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)91.104.2.  Powers of
the Department and Duties of the Superintendent of Building.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)91.104.2.1.  General.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The powers of the Department
are enumerated in LAMC Section 98.0403.1.	The Superintendent of Building shall
have the duty to render interpretations of this Code and to adopt and enforce
rules and supplemental regulations to clarify the application of its
provisions.  These interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in
conformance with the intent and purpose of this Code.	The Superintendent of
Building shall classify every building into one of the occupancies set forth in
Division 3 of this Code according to its use or the character of its
occupancy.  The Superintendent of Building shall also classify every building
into one of the types of construction set forth in Division 6 of this
Code.91.104.2.2.  Authority to Require Exposure of Work.  Whenever any work on
which called  inspections are required, as specified in Section 91.108, is
covered or concealed by additional work without first having been inspected, the
work shall be exposed for examination upon written notice by the department. The
work of exposing and recovering shall not entail expense to the
city.91.104.2.3.  Right of Entry.  The authority for right of entry is
enumerated in Section 98.0105 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.104.2.4. 
Authority to Stop Work.  Whenever any construction work is being done contrary
to the provisions of any law or ordinance enforced by the department, the
department shall have the authority to issue a written notice to the responsible
party to stop work on that portion of the work on which the violation has
occurred. The notice shall state the nature of the violation and no work shall
be done on that portion until the violation has been rectified and approval
obtained from the department.91.104.2.5.  Authority to Stop Use or Occupancy. 
Whenever any portion of a building is loaded in excess of the loading for which
it was constructed, or whenever it houses an occupancy other than that for which
it was constructed, or whenever there is an encroachment upon any required court
or yard, the department shall have the authority to order by written notice that
such violation be discontinued.	The written notice shall state the nature of the
violations and shall fix a time for the abatement thereof. If the violations
have not been abated by the expiration of the fixed time, the Certificate of
Occupancy shall thereupon be canceled.91.104.2.6.  Alternate Materials,
Alternate Design and Methods of Construction.  New or alternate materials and
methods of construction may be approved by the department in accordance with the
provisions of Article 8, Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.91.104.2.7.  Building Materials Inspection Required.91.104.2.7.1.  No
person shall use or cause to be used, in the construction of any building or
structure for the erection of which a permit is required by this chapter, any
materials which are not specifically permitted by this Code, without having
first secured the approval of said materials by the department.91.104.2.7.2. 
The department may require that all materials to be used in the construction of
any building or structure, or materials already used or fabricated into a
building or structure, be submitted for test to a testing agency approved by the
department.91.104.2.7.3.  It is unlawful for any person to fail to submit to an
approved testing agency within five days after having received a written notice
from the department a sample, sufficient for analysis, of any material to be
used in the erection or construction of a building or structure, or which has
been used or fabricated into a building or structure.91.104.2.7.4.  No material
required by the department to be submitted to a testing agency for analysis
shall be approved by the department unless the person requesting said approval
submits a written report of the analysis by such testing agency.
