                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SOUND TRANSMISSION. (§ 91.1207)

  SOUND TRANSMISSION.	Section 1207 of the CBC is adopted by reference, except
Sections 1207.1, 1207.11.1, 1207.11.3, 1207.11.4 and 1207.12 of the CBC are not
adopted and in lieu, Sections 91.1207.1, 91.1207.11.1, 91.1207.11.3,
91.1207.11.4 and 91.1207.12 are added.91.1207.1.  Purpose and Scope.  The
purpose of this section is to establish uniform minimum noise insulation
performance standards to protect persons within new hotels, motels, dormitories,
residential care facilities, apartment houses, dwellings, private schools, and
places of worship from the effects of excessive noise, including but not limited
to, hearing loss or impairment and interference with speech and
sleep.91.1207.11.1.  Application Consistent with Local Land-Use Standards. 
All structures identified in Section 91.1207.1 located in noise critical areas,
such as proximity to highways, county roads, city streets, railroads, rapid
transit lines, airports or industrial areas shall be designed to prevent the
intrusion of exterior noises beyond prescribed levels.  Proper design shall
include, but shall not be limited to, orientation of the structure, setbacks,
shielding and sound insulation of the building itself.91.1207.11.3.  Airport
Noise Sources.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  Residential
structures and all other structures identified in Section 91.1207.1 located
where the annual Ldn or CNEL (as defined in Title 21, Division 2.5, Chapter 6,
Section 5001,California Code of Regulations) exceeds 60 db, shall require an
acoustical analysis showing that the proposed design will achieve the prescribed
allowable interior level.	EXCEPTION:  New single family detached dwellings and
all non-residential noise sensitive structures located outside the noise impact
boundary of 65 db CNEL are exempt from Section 91.1207.	Alterations or additions
to all noise sensitive structures, within the 65 db and greater CNEL shall
comply with Section 91.1207.  If the addition or alteration cost exceeds 75% of
the replacement cost of the existing structure, then the entire structure must
comply with Section 91.1207.	For public-use airports or heliports, the Ldn or
CNEL shall be determined from the Aircraft Noise Impact Area Map prepared by the
Airport Authority.  For military bases, the Ldn shall be determined from the
facility Air Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) plan.  For all other
airports or heliports, or public-use airports or heliports for which a land-use
plan has not been developed, the Ldn or CNEL shall be determined from the noise
element of the general plan of the local jurisdiction.	When aircraft noise is
not the only significant source, noise levels from all sources shall be added to
determine the composite site noise level.91.1207.11.4.  Other Noise Sources. 
All structures identified in Section 91.1207.1 located where the Ldn or CNEL
exceeds 60db shall require an acoustical analysis showing that the proposed
design will limit exterior noise to the prescribed allowable interior level. 
The noise element of the local general plan shall be used to the greatest extent
possible to identify sites with noise levels potentially greater than
60db.91.1207.12.  Compliance.  Evidence of compliance shall be submitted with
the application for a building permit for all structures identified in Section
91.1207.1.  Evidence of compliance shall consist of the submittal of an
acoustical analysis report prepared under the supervision of a person
experienced in the field of acoustical engineering or the use of prescriptive
standards as determined by the Superintendent of Building for residential
structures.  The report shall show topographical relationships of noise sources
and dwelling sites, identification of noise sources and their characteristics,
predicted noise spectra and levels at the exterior of the proposed structure
considering present and future land usage, the basis for the prediction
(measured or obtained from published data), the noise attenuation measures to be
applied, and an analysis of the noise insulation effectiveness of the proposed
construction showing that the prescribed interior level requirements are met.	If
interior allowable noise levels are met by requiring that windows be unopenable
or closed, the design for the structure must also specify a ventilation or
air-conditioning system to provide a habitable interior environment.  The
ventilation system must not compromise the interior room noise reduction.
