                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STATEMENT OF SPECIAL INSPECTIONS. (§ 91.1705)

  STATEMENT OF SPECIAL INSPECTIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	Section 1705 of the CBC is adopted by
reference, except Sections 1705.2 and 1705.3 of the CBC are not adopted and in
lieu Sections 91.1705.2 and 91.1705.3 are added.91.1705.2. Content of Statement
of Special Inspections.  The statement of special inspections shall identify
the following:    	1.	The materials, systems, components, research reports and
work required to have special inspection or testing by the Superintendent of
Building or by the registered design professional responsible for each portion
of the work.	2.	The type and extent of each special inspection.	3.	The type and
extent of each test.	4.	Additional requirements for special inspection or
testing for seismic or wind resistance as specified in CBC Sections 1705.3,
1705.4 or Sections 91.1707 or 91.1708 of this Code.	5.	For each type of special
inspection, identification as to whether it will be continuous special
inspection or periodic special inspection.91.1705.3  Seismic Resistance.  The
statement of special inspections shall include seismic requirements for cases
covered in CBC Sections 1705.3.1 through 1705.3.5.	EXCEPTION:  Seismic
requirements can be excluded from the statement of special inspections for
structures designed and constructed in accordance with the following:	1. 	The
structure consists of light-frame construction; the design spectral response
acceleration at short periods, SDS, as determined in Section 1613.5.4, does not
exceed 0.5g; and the height of the structure does not exceed 35 feet (10 668 mm)
above grade plane; or	2. 	The structure is constructed using a reinforced
masonry structural system or reinforced concrete structural system; the design
spectral response acceleration at short periods, SDS, as determined in Section
1613.5.4, does not exceed 0.5g, and the height of the structure does not exceed
25 feet (7620 mm) above grade plane; or	3. 	Detached one- or two-family
dwellings not exceeding two stories above grade plane, provided the structure is
not assigned to Seismic Design Category D, E, or F and does not have any of the
following plan or vertical irregularities in accordance with Section 12.3.2 of
ASCE 7:	3.1. 	Torsional irregularity.	3.2. 	Nonparallel systems.	3.3. 	Stiffness
irregularity – extreme soft story and soft story. 	3.4. 	Discontinuity in
capacity – weak story.
