                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL INSPECTIONS FOR SEISMIC RESISTANCE. (§ 91.1707)

  SPECIAL INSPECTIONS FOR SEISMIC RESISTANCE.
(Amended by Ord. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	Section 1707 of the CBC is adopted by
reference, except Sections 1707.1, 1707.2 and 1707.8 of the CBC are not adopted
and in lieu Sections 91.1707.1, 91.1707.2, 91.1707.2.1, 91.1707.8 and 91.1707.10
are added.91.1707.1. Special Inspections for Seismic Resistance.  Special
inspections itemized in CBC Sections 1707.3 through 1707.7, and Sections
91.1707.2, 91.1707.8 and 91.1707.10 are required for the following, unless
exempted by the exceptions of Section 91.1704.1, 91.1705.3, or CBC Section
1705.3.1:	1.	The seismic-force-resisting systems in structures assigned to
Seismic Design Category C, D, E or F as determined in CBC Section
1613.	2.	Designated seismic systems in structures assigned to Seismic Design
Category D, E or F.	3.	Architectural, mechanical and electrical components in
structures assigned to Seismic Design Category C, D, E or F that are required in
CBC Sections 1707.7 and 1707.8.91.1707.2. Structural Steel.  Continuous special
inspection is required for structural welding in accordance with AISC 341 and
during the fabrication and erection of buildings over 160 feet (48,768 mm) in
height with structural steel moment-resisting frames.  A Registered Deputy
Inspector under the supervision of the engineer responsible for the structural
design shall be present during the performance of all structural welding or the
installation of all high-strength bolts whether in a fabricator’s shop or at
the job site.
 
	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Single-pass fillet welds not exceeding 5/16-inch (7.9 mm) in
size.	2.	Floor and roof deck welding.91.1707.2.1. Certification.  For buildings
exceeding 160 feet (48,768 mm) in height, the engineer responsible for the
structural design and the general contractor responsible for the construction,
or their competent authorized representatives, shall make periodic inspections
of the work at the site to verify general compliance with the approved plans,
specifications and change orders.  The engineer and general contractor shall
submit a statement in writing to the Department stating that they know from
personal knowledge that the materials installed and the structural work
performed is in compliance with the approved plans, specifications and change
orders.	The phrase “personal knowledge” as used above in reference to the
engineer and general contractor means the knowledge resulting from the general
observation by the engineer and the general supervision by the contractor of the
work, as required by both in the superintendence of the building’s
construction, and as distinguished from the continuous personal superintendence
of the special inspector and/or deputy inspector who are continuously at the
site during the progress of the work.  The exercise of reasonable diligence to
obtain the facts is required and anyone who intentionally remains unaware may be
charged with knowledge.  The interpretation of personal knowledge as it applies
to the special inspector and/or deputy inspector is that the inspector(s) must
have actual personal knowledge that the requirements of the plans and
specifications are being carried out, which is obtained by the inspector’s
continuous observation of the work of construction at the site in all stages of
its progress.91.1707.8. Designated Seismic System Verifications.  The
Registered Deputy Inspector shall examine designated seismic systems requiring
seismic qualification in accordance with CBC Section 1708.4 and verify that the
label, anchorage, and mounting conforms to the certificate of compliance and any
applicable research report.91.1707.10. Structural Inspection – Concrete. 
During the construction of all buildings over 160 feet (48,768 mm) in height
with concrete special moment-resisting space frames, a structural inspector
under the supervision of the engineer responsible for the structural design
shall be present to inspect the materials and workmanship for conformance with
approved plans, specifications and change orders involved in construction of the
ductile frames and shear walls.  This inspection may be made by one or more
structural inspectors, provided that at least one structural inspector is
present during the placement of all concrete and reinforcement in the structural
frame and shear walls.	The number of structural inspectors to be provided for
each structure shall be determined by the engineer responsible for the
structural design, provided that more than one structural inspector shall be
provided where the magnitude of a structure prevents a single inspector from
adequately performing the inspection.	The owner shall provide for each
structural inspector.  Each structural inspector shall be paid by the owner
directly or through the person responsible for the structural design.  Each
structural inspector shall be responsible to the person who prepared the
structural design.	The inspection by the structural inspector or inspectors
shall be in addition to inspections made by Department employees as specified in
Section 91.108 of this Code and by Registered Deputy Inspectors as specified for
other parts of the work in Section 91.1704.1 this Code.	Prior to the issuance of
the Certificate of Occupancy, each structural inspector shall submit a report in
writing to the engineer and the Department certifying that the portions of the
structural frame inspected by the inspector were constructed in accordance with
the approved plans, specifications, change orders and Division 19 of this Code.
