                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BASIC PROVISIONS. (§ 91.1900)

  	Chapter 19 of the CBC is adopted by reference, except that Sections 1908.1,
1908.1.2, 1908.1.8 and 1909.4 of the CBC are not adopted and Sections 91.1908.1,
91.1908.1.2, 91.1908.1.8, 91.1908.1.11, 91.1908.1.12, 91.1908.1.13, 91.1908.1.14
and 91.1909.4 of this Code are added.  91.1908.1.  General.  The text of ACI
318 shall be modified as indicated in CBC Sections 1908.1.1 through
1908.1.14.91.1908.1.2. ACI 318, Section 21.1.1.  Modify ACI 318 Sections
21.1.1.3 and 21.1.1.7 to read as follows: 	21.1.1.3 – Structures assigned to
Seismic Design Category A shall satisfy requirements of Chapters 1 to 19 and 22;
Chapter 21 does not apply. Structures assigned to Seismic Design Category B, C,
D, E or F also shall satisfy 21.1.1.4 through 21.1.1.8, as applicable.  Except
for structural elements of plain concrete complying with Section 1908.1.8 of the
California Building Code, structural elements of plain concrete are prohibited
in structures assigned to Seismic Design Categories C, D, E or F.	21.1.1.7 –
Structural systems designated as part of the seismic-force-resisting system
shall be restricted to those permitted by ASCE 7.  Except for Seismic Design
Category A, for which Chapter 21 does not apply, the following provisions shall
be satisfied for each structural system designated as part of the
seismic-force-resisting system, regardless of the Seismic Design
Category:	(a)	Ordinary moment frames shall satisfy 21.2.	(b)	Ordinary reinforced
concrete structural walls and ordinary precast structural walls need not satisfy
any provisions in Chapter 21.	(c)	Intermediate moment frames shall satisfy
21.3.	(d)	Intermediate precast structural walls shall satisfy 21.4.	(e)	Special
moment frames shall satisfy 21.5 through 21.8.	(f)	Special structural walls
shall satisfy 21.9.	(g)	Special structural walls constructed using precast
concrete shall satisfy 21.10.All special moment frames and special structural
walls shall also satisfy 21.1.3 through 21.1.7.  Concrete tilt-up wall panels
classified as intermediate precast structural wall system shall satisfy 21.9 in
addition to 21.4.2 and 21.4.3 for structures assigned to Seismic Design Category
D, E, or F. 91.1908.1.8. ACI 318, Section 22.10.  Delete ACI 318, Section
22.10, and replace with the following:22.10 – Plain concrete in structures
assigned to Seismic Design Category C, D, E or F.22.10.1 – Structures assigned
to Seismic Design Category C, D, E or F shall not have elements of structural
plain concrete, except as follows: 	(a)	Concrete used for fill with a minimum
cement content of two (2) sacks of Portland cement per cubic yard.	(b)	Isolated
footings of plain concrete supporting pedestals or columns are permitted,
provided the projection of the footing beyond the face of the supported member
does not exceed the footing thickness.	(c)	Plain concrete footings supporting
walls are permitted, provided the footings have at least two continuous
longitudinal reinforcing bars. Bars shall not be smaller than No. 4 and shall
have a total area of not less than 0.002 times the gross cross-sectional area of
the footing.  For footings that exceed 8 inches (203 mm) in thickness, a
minimum of one bar shall be provided at the top and bottom of the footing. 
Continuity of reinforcement shall be provided at corners and
intersections.91.1908.1.11. ACI 318, Section 21.6.4.1.  Modify ACI 318, Section
21.6.4.1 to read as follows:Where the calculated point of contraflexure is not
within the middle half of the member clear height, provide transverse
reinforcement as specified in ACI 318 Section 21.6.4.1. items (a) through (c),
over the full height of the member.  91.1908.1.12. ACI 318, Section 21.6.4. 
Modify ACI 318, Section 21.6.4, by adding Section 21.6.4.8 to read as
follows:21.6.4.8 – At any section where the design strength, ϕPn, of the
column is less than the sum of the shears Ve computed in accordance with ACI 318
Sections 21.5.4.1 and 21.6.5.1 for all the beams framing into the column above
the level under consideration, transverse reinforcement as specified in ACI 318
Sections 21.6.4.1 through 21.6.4.3 shall be provided.  For beams framing into
opposite sides of the column, the moment components may be assumed to be of
opposite sign.  For determination of the design strength, Pn, of the column,
these moments may be assumed to result from the deformation of the frame in any
one principal axis.91.1908.1.13. ACI 318, Section 21.6.4.  Modify ACI 318,
Section 21.9.4, by adding Section 21.9.4.6 to read as follows:21.9.4.6 – Walls
and portions of walls with Pu > 0.35Po shall not be considered to contribute to
the calculated strength of the structure for resisting earthquake- induced
forces.  Such walls shall conform to the requirements of ACI 318 Section
21.13.91.1908.1.14. ACI 318, Section 21.11.6.  Modify ACI 318, Section 21.11.6,
by adding the following:Collector and boundary elements in topping slabs placed
over precast floor and roof elements shall not be less than 3 inches (76 mm) or
6 db thick, where db is the diameter of the largest reinforcement in the topping
slab.91.1909.4. Design.  Structural plain concrete walls, footings and
pedestals shall be designed for adequate strength in accordance with ACI 318,
Sections 22.4 through 22.8. 	EXCEPTION:  For Group R-3 occupancies and
buildings of other occupancies less than two stories above grade plane of
light-frame construction, the required edge thickness of ACI 318 is permitted to
be reduced to 6 inches (152 mm), provided that the footing does not extend more
than 4 inches (102 mm) on either side of the supported wall.  This exception
shall not apply to structural elements designed to resist seismic lateral forces
for structures assigned to Seismic Design Category D, E, or F.
