                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CERTIFIED SECURITY BAR INSTALLER. (§ 91.1717)

  CERTIFIED SECURITY BAR INSTALLER.91.1717.1.  General.  A certified security
bar installer may certify to the Department of Building and Safety that any
bars, grilles, grates, security rolldown shutters, or similar devices installed
on required emergency escape windows or doors meet the requirements of Section
91.6304.3 of this Code.	The Department may allow the use of a certified
installer if:	1.	The certified installer obtains a Certificate of Registration
in accordance with the provisions of this section.	2.	The certified installer
files with the Department a Certificate of Compliance for each dwelling unit for
which certification is being made.  The Certificate of Compliance shall be on a
form provided by the Department and shall be signed by the property owner and
the certified installer.	3.	The Certificate of Compliance processing fee is paid
in accordance with Section 91.107.7 of this Code.	4.	The certified installer
files the Certificate of Compliance with the Department within 15 days after
completion of the installation.91.1717.2.  Registration.  A certified
installer shall obtain a Certificate of Registration from the Department of
Building and Safety.91.1717.3.  Application.91.1717.3.1.  Forms.  Application
for a certified security bar installer Certificate of Registration shall be made
on a form furnished by the Department.91.1717.3.2.  Information Necessary. 
The application shall bear the name and address of the applicant and, if a firm,
partnership or corporation, the names of the principal officers.  The
application shall carry other information deemed necessary by the
Department. 91.1717.3.3.  Verification.  The applicant shall declare that the
information contained in the application is true and correct.91.1717.3.4. 
Fees.  The application shall be accompanied by an examination fee of
$125.00.91.1717.4.  Examination.91.1717.4.1.  Examination Required.  Before
any person shall be issued a Certificate of Registration, the applicant, who
must be an officer in the case of a firm, partnership or corporation, shall have
successfully passed the examination required for the issuance of the certificate
within 90 days preceding the date of the issuance.91.1717.4.2.  Experience
Required.  To be eligible for the examination for a Registration Certificate,
the applicant shall have a valid California State Contractor’s License in an
appropriate specialty and a valid City Business Tax Certificate.91.1717.4.3. 
Board of Examiners.  The Superintendent of Building or a Board of Examiners
composed of three qualified persons appointed by the Superintendent shall
conduct examinations.	The results of every examination shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent.	Each examiner shall serve at the pleasure of the
Superintendent of Building and shall serve for a period of one year unless
reappointed by the Superintendent.91.1717.4.4.  Scope of Examination.  The
examination shall, in the judgment of the board, fairly determine the ability of
the applicant to perform properly the work, which he or she would be authorized
to do by the certificate requested, and may include the following:	1.	A written
test.	2.	Practical tests as may be required.	3.	An oral interview as may be
required.	4.	Other tests as may be required by the Board of
Examiners.91.1717.4.5.  Time of Examination.  The applicant shall be examined
as soon as practicable after filing an application.91.1717.4.6.  Rules and
Regulations.  The Department shall have the authority to establish rules and
regulations for the conduct of examinations.91.1717.4.7.  Fitness of
Applicant.  Any applicant for a certificate may be required to submit
satisfactory proof of his or her fitness to carry out the intent of this
Code.91.1717.4.8.  Failure to Pass.  Every applicant who fails to pass an
examination shall not be eligible for another examination until four weeks after
taking the previous examination.  Any applicant who fails to pass on the third
try shall not be eligible again until six months after taking the previous
examination.91.1717.5.  Issuance of Certificates.91.1717.5.1.  Upon the
payment of a $90.00 fee, the Department may issue a Certificate of Registration
to every applicant who passes the required examination for a certified security
bar installer.91.1717.5.2.  Renewal of Certificates.  Expired certificates may
be renewed at any time within 12 months following the date of expiration. 
However, after the first month, the renewal fee shall be increased by ten
percent for each subsequent month.  After a certificate has been expired for
one year, it may not be renewed; however, an applicant may apply for a new
certificate at that time.91.1717.6.  Exhibition of Certificate.91.1717.6.1. 
Every person having a fixed place of business shall keep his or her Certificate
of Registration posted in some conspicuous location at his or her place of
business during the time the certificate is in force.91.1717.6.2.  Every person
not having a fixed place of business shall carry his or her Certificate of
Registration with him or her at all times while doing any work pursuant to this
certificate.91.1717.7.  Revocation of Certificate.  Any certificate may be
suspended or revoked in accordance with the provisions of Article 8, Chapter IX
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.1717.8.  Transfer of Certificate.  No
certificate shall be transferable.  A Certificate of Registration issued to a
firm, partnership or corporation may not be transferred.  The dissolution of a
firm, partnership or corporation renders the certificate void.
