                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPROVALS. (§ 91.1703)

  APPROVALS.
	(Amended by Ord. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	Section 1703 of the CBC is adopted by
reference, except Sections 1703.1, 1703.2, 1703.3, 1703.4, 1703.4.1, 1703.4.2,
1703.6, and 1703.6.2 of the CBC are not adopted and in lieu Sections 91.1703.1,
91.1703.2, 91.1703.3, 91.1703.4, 91.1703.4.1,  91.1703.4.2, 91.1703.6, and
91.703.6.2 are added.91.1703.1. Approved Agency.  An approved agency shall
provide all information as necessary for the Superintendent of Building to
determine that the agency meets the applicable requirements pursuant to Section
98.0503 of this Code.91.1703.2. Written Approval.  Any material, appliance,
equipment, system or method of construction meeting the requirements of this
Code shall be approved in writing after satisfactory completion of the required
tests and submission of required test reports pursuant to Sections 98.0501 and
98.0502 of this Code.91.1703.3. Approved Record.  For any material, appliance,
equipment, system or method of construction that has been approved, a record of
that approval, including the conditions and limitations of the approval, shall
be kept on file in the Department and shall be open to public inspection at
appropriate times.91.1703.4. Performance.  Specific information consisting of
test reports conducted by an approved testing agency in accordance with
standards referenced in Division 35 of this Code, or other information as
necessary, shall be provided for the Superintendent of Building to determine
that the material meets the applicable Code requirements, including Sections
98.0501 and 98.0502 of this Code.91.1703.4.1. Research and Investigation. 
Sufficient technical data shall be submitted to the Superintendent of Building
to substantiate the proposed use of any material or assembly.  If it is
determined that the evidence submitted is satisfactory proof of performance for
the use intended, the Superintendent of Building shall approve the use of the
material or assembly subject to the requirements of this Code.  The costs,
reports and investigations required under these provisions shall be paid by the
permit applicant as required by Sections 98.0501, 98.0502 and 98.0503 of this
Code.91.1703.4.2. Research Reports.  Supporting data, where necessary to assist
in the approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this
Code, shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources as required
in Sections 98.0501 and 98.0502 of this Code.91.1703.6. Evaluation and Follow-up
Inspection Services.  Where structural components or other items regulated by
this Code are not visible for inspection after completion of a prefabricated
assembly, the applicant shall submit a report of each prefabricated assembly.
The report shall indicate the complete details of the assembly, including a
description of the assembly and its components, the basis upon which the
assembly is being evaluated, test results and similar information and other data
as necessary for the Superintendent of Building to determine conformance to this
Code. Such a report shall be approved by the Superintendent of
Building.91.1703.6.2. Test and Inspection Records.  Copies of necessary test
and inspection records shall be filed with the Superintendent of Building.
