                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SHALLOW FOUNDATIONS. (§ 91.1809)

  SHALLOW FOUNDATIONS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	Section 1809 of the
CBC is adopted by reference, except Section 1809.3 and 1809.4 are not adopted
and in lieu Sections 91.1809.3, 91.1809.4, 91.1809.7 and 91.1809.12 are
added.91.1809.3. Stepped Footing.  The top surface of footings shall be level.
The bottom surface of footings shall be permitted to have a slope not exceeding
one unit vertical in 10 units horizontal (10-percent slope). Footings shall be
stepped where it is necessary to change the elevation of the top surface of the
footing or where the surface of the ground slopes more than one unit vertical in
10 units horizontal (10-percent slope). This stepping requirement shall also
apply to the top surface of grade beams supporting walls. Footings shall be
reinforced with four ½ inch diameter (12.7 mm) deformed reinforcing bars. Two
bars shall be placed at the top and bottom of the footings as shown in Figure
1809.3 of this Code.
STEPPED FOUNDATIONS
FIGURE 1809.391.1809.4. Depth and Width of Footings.  The minimum depth of
footings below the surface of undisturbed soil, compacted fill material or CLSM
shall be 12 inches (305 mm).  Where applicable, the requirements of CBC Section
1809.5 shall also be satisfied.  The minimum width of footings shall be 12
inches (305 mm).91.1809.7. Prescriptive Footings for Light-Frame Construction. 
Where a specific design is not provided concrete or masonry-unit footings,
supporting walls of light-frame construction shall be permitted to be designed
in accordance with Table 1809.7.   Prescriptive footings in Table 1809.7 shall
not exceed one story above grade for structures assigned to Seismic Design
Category D, E, or F.TABLE 1809.7
PRESCRIPTIVE FOOTINGS SUPPORTING WALLS OF LIGHT-FRAMED CONSTRUCTION a, b, c, d,
e
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)
  
    
      
        NUMBER OF FLOORS SUPPORTED BY THE FOOTING f
      
      
        WIDTH OF FOOTING (inches)
      
      
        THICKNESS OF FOOTING (inches)
      
    
    
      
        1
      
      
        12
      
      
        6
      
    
    
      
        2
      
      
        15
      
      
        6
      
    
    
      
        3
      
      
        18
      
      
        8g
      
    
  
	For SI: one inch = 25.4 mm, one foot = 304.8 mm	a.	Depth of footings shall be
in accordance with Section 1809.4.	b.	The ground under the floor is permitted to
be excavated to the elevation of the top of the footing.	c. 	Not Adopted.	d.	See
CBC Section 1908 for additional requirements for footings of structures assigned
to Seismic Design Category C, D, E or F.	e.	For thickness of foundation walls,
see Section 91.1807.1.6 of this Code.	f.	Footings are permitted to support a
roof in addition to the stipulated number of floors.  Footings supporting roof
only shall be as required for supporting one floor.91.1809.12. Timber
Footings.  Timber footings shall be permitted for buildings of Type V
construction and as otherwise approved by the Department.  Such footings shall
be treated in accordance with AWPA U1 (Commodity Specification A, Use Category
4B). Treated timbers are not required where placed entirely below permanent
water level, or where used as capping for wood piles that project above the
water level over submerged or marsh lands. The compressive stresses
perpendicular to grain in untreated timber footings supported upon treated piles
shall not exceed 70 percent of the allowable stresses for the species and grade
of timber as specified in the AF&#038;PA NDS.  Timber footings shall not be
used in structures assigned to Seismic Design Category D, E, or F.
