                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL INSPECTIONS. (§ 91.1704)

  SPECIAL INSPECTIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	Section 1704 of the CBC is adopted by
reference, except that Sections 1704.1, 1704.1.1, 1704.1.2, 1704.2.2,
1704.3.1.1, 1704.3.1.2, 1704.3.1.3, 1704.4, 1704.7, 1704.8 and 1704.9 of the CBC
are not adopted and in lieu Sections 91.1704.1, 91.1704.1.1, 91.1704.1.2,
91.1704.1.3, 91.1704.1.4, 91.1704.1.4.1, 91.1704.1.4.2, 91.1704.2.2,
91.1704.3.1.1, 91.1704.3.1.2, 91.1704.3.1.3,  91.1704.4, 91.1704.7,
91.1704.7.1, 91.1704.8, 91.1704.9,  91.1704.17, 91.1704.18, 91.1704.19,
91.1704.20, 91.1704.21, 91.1704.21.1, 91.1704.21.2, 91.1704.21.3, 91.1704.21.4,
91.1704.21.5, 91.1704.22, 91.1704.22.1, and 91.1704.22.2 are added or amended,
respectively, to read as follows: 91.1704.1.  General.  Where application is
made for construction as described in this Section, the owner or the registered
design professional in charge who is acting as the owner’s agent shall employ
one or more deputy inspectors to provide inspections during construction on the
types of work listed in Sections 91.1704 and 91.1707.  The Registered Deputy
Inspector shall be a qualified person as set forth in Section 91.1704.1.3 and
shall demonstrate competence to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Building for inspection of the particular type of construction or operation
requiring special inspection.  The Registered Deputy Inspector shall be
approved by and shall be responsible to the registered design professional in
charge of the design of the structure.	The special inspections shall be in
addition to the inspections made by the employees of the Department as set forth
in Section 91.108 of this Code.	All special inspections shall be made by a
Registered Deputy Inspector.  Whenever the term “Special Inspector” is used
in this Code, it shall mean “Registered Deputy Inspector” as described in
Section 91.1704.1.3.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Special inspections are not required for
work of a minor nature or as warranted by conditions in the jurisdiction as
approved by the Superintendent of Building.	2.	Special inspections are not
required for building components unless the design involves the practice of
professional engineering or architecture as defined by applicable state statutes
and regulations governing the professional registration and certification of
engineers or architects.	3.	Unless otherwise required by the Superintendent of
Building, special inspections are not required for Group U occupancies that are
accessory to a residential occupancy including, but not limited to, those listed
in Section 312.1.	4.	The provisions of Health and Safety Code Part 6, Division
13 and Chapter 3, Division 1 of Title 25 of the California Code of Regulations,
commencing with Section 3000, shall apply to the construction and inspection of
factory-built housing as defined in Health and Safety Code Section
19971. 91.1704.1.1.  Statement of   The permit applicant shall in accordance
with Section 91.106.3.3 of this Code submit a statement of special inspections
prepared by the registered design professional in responsible charge as a
condition for permit issuance.  The statement of special inspection shall
provide information in accordance with Section 91.1705 of this
Code.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	 A statement of special inspections is not required for
structures designed and constructed in accordance with the conventional
construction provisions of CBC Section 2308.	2.	 The statement of special
inspections is permitted to be prepared by a qualified person approved by the
Superintendent of Building for construction not designed by a registered design
professional.91.1704.1.2.  Report Requirement.  In addition to all the
requirements of Section 91.1704.1.4, Registered Deputy Inspectors shall keep
records of inspections.  The Registered Deputy Inspector shall furnish
inspection reports to the Superintendent of Building and to the registered
design professional in charge.  Reports shall indicate that work inspected was
done in conformance with approved construction documents.  Discrepancies shall
be brought to the immediate attention of the contractor for correction.  If the
discrepancies are not corrected, the discrepancies shall be brought to the
attention of the Superintendent of Building and to the registered design
professional in responsible charge prior to the completion of that phase of the
work.  A final report documenting required special inspections and correction
of any discrepancies noted in the inspections shall be submitted at a point in
time agreed upon by the permit applicant and the Superintendent of Building
prior to the start of work.91.1704.1.3.  Registered Deputy Inspector. 
Application for registration as a Registered Deputy Inspector shall be made to
the Superintendent of Building on a form furnished by the Department.  A
separate application shall be made for each type of registration desired. 
Registration is available for the following types of inspections:  Reinforced
Concrete (RC), Structural Masonry (SM), Structural Steel/Welding (SSW), Grading
(GD), Sprayed Fire resistant Materials (SFRM), Methane Barrier (MB) and Wood
(WD). 	A committee appointed by the Superintendent of Building shall examine
each applicant as to his or her experience and training for performing the
duties of an inspector of the type for which application has been made. 
Additionally, the applicant will be examined on the applicant’s knowledge of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code and Register Deputy Inspector duties,
responsibilities and procedures.  When satisfied as to the fitness of the
applicant, the Superintendent of Building shall issue a Certificate of
Registration.  Upon application for renewal of a Certificate of Registration,
the applicant shall be reexamined to ascertain the applicant’s fitness to
perform the duties of inspector of the type for which application has been
made.	EXCEPTION:  If the Department determines that the initial examination
(which includes general knowledge, code requirements and plan comprehension) for
the special inspector program under the International Code Council (ICC) is
equivalent to the above-described initial or renewal examination, then the
Department may accept the results of the ICC examination in lieu of the
Department’s examination in that category; however, the Department will be
examining the applicant’s knowledge of the Los Angeles Municipal Code and
deputy inspector duties, responsibilities and procedures.	The Superintendent of
Building shall issue separate Certificate of Registration for each type of
registration requiring special inspection in accordance with Sections 91.1704
and 91.1707 of this Code and as determined by the Superintendent of Building for
any construction requiring either continuous or periodic special
inspection.	Nothing here shall be deemed to prohibit any one person from being
qualified for more than one type of special inspection, provided he or she
applies, pays the required fees, takes the required examinations and is duly
qualified by the Superintendent of Building for each type.	Each Certificate of
Registration shall expire three years from the date of issuance, but may be
renewed by the Superintendent of Building within a grace period of 30 days
thereafter.	The Department shall maintain a list of the names of all Registered
Deputy Inspectors, showing the type of work each has been authorized to
inspect.  This list shall be available to the public.	Upon evidence
satisfactory to the Superintendent of Building of incompetence, of willful or
negligent failure to observe or report violations of this Code, or of any other
failure to perform properly and effectively the duties assumed by a Registered
Deputy Inspector, the Superintendent of Building may revoke, suspend or refuse
to renew any Certificate of Registration.  But prior to that action, the holder
shall be given an opportunity to appear before the Superintendent of Building
and be heard.	Except where there is an employee of the City of Los Angeles
inspecting buildings or structures being erected or repaired by the City, no
Registered Deputy Inspector shall receive any compensation whatsoever from the
City.  A Registered Deputy Inspector shall undertake and perform the duties of
inspection solely on the request of the owner or the owner’s agent.  The
designation shall be deemed to indicate that the duties incident to the
inspection are within the course and scope of the Registered Deputy
Inspector’s employment by the owner or agent, and except where the Registered
Deputy Inspector is in fact an employee of the City, the Registered Deputy
Inspector shall not be deemed an employee of the City, the contractor, a
subcontractor or a material vendor for any purpose.91.1704.1.4.  Duties and
Responsibilities of the Registered Deputy Inspector.	1.	The Registered Deputy
Inspector employed on any work must be present during the execution of all the
work the Registered Deputy Inspector has undertaken to inspect.  The Registered
Deputy Inspector shall notify the Department of the commencement of inspection
of a job and shall specify the type of inspection for which the Registered
Deputy Inspector has been engaged.  This notification shall be made no later
than the last working day preceding the commencement of inspection.  The
Registered Deputy Inspector shall report to the job sufficiently in advance of
construction to review the plans and to inspect all materials to be used or
concealed within the work; shall inspect the construction, erection, placing or
other use of the materials; and shall observe whether there is compliance with
the Code as to all of the foregoing.  During the execution of the work, the
Registered Deputy Inspector shall not undertake or engage in any other task or
occupation that will interfere with the proper performance of his or her duties
relating to the inspections.  The Registered Deputy Inspector shall report, as
directed, to the Superintendent of Building, noting all violations of this Code
that have occurred and any other information as may be required.  At the
conclusion of the Registered Deputy Inspector’s duties on any project, which
has been completed in accordance with this Code, the Registered Deputy Inspector
shall submit a report to the Department setting forth the portion of the work
inspected.  The report shall be made on forms supplied by the Department and
shall be filed in the records of the Department.	2.	Nothing here shall be deemed
to authorize any Registered Deputy Inspector to approve any inspection required
by this Code, other than the special inspection for which the Registered Deputy
Inspector was hired.	3.	Where, in the opinion of the Department, the magnitude
or complexity of a job warrants it, additional Registered Deputy Inspectors may
be required.	4.	Where, in the opinion of the Department, the Registered Deputy
Inspector is negligent in the performance of the Deputy Inspector’s duties,
the job shall be stopped.	5.	 Nothing herein shall be deemed to authorize any
registered deputy inspector to approve the pouring of concrete, the placement of
masonry, structural steel or fill prior to the approval of the regular building
inspector. 91.1704.1.4.1.  Fees for Registered Deputy Inspector.  	1.	New
Application.  Before accepting any application for registration as a Registered
Deputy Inspector, the Department shall collect a new examination fee of
$528.00.  A separate application shall be submitted and a separate examination
fee shall be collected for each additional type of registration desired.  When
the applicant passes the examination(s), a Certificate(s) of Registration for
each type of examination passed shall be issued.  If the applicant fails to
pass an examination, the applicant may reapply and again pay the examination
fees.  No refund(s) will be given to the applicant after the Department has
administered the examination(s).	2.	Renewal Application.  Before renewing a
Certificate of Registration as a Registered Deputy Inspector, the Department
shall collect a renewal Registration and examination fee in the amount of
$482.00.  A separate application shall be submitted and a separate examination
fee shall be collected for each additional type of renewal registration
desired.  When the applicant passes the examination(s), a Certificate(s) of
Registration for each type of examination passed shall be issued.  If the
applicant fails to pass the examination(s), the applicant may reapply, however
the applicant must again pay the renewal Registration and examination fees
before the Department can issue the Certificate of Registration(s).  No
refund(s) will be given to applicant after the Department has administered the
examination.	3.	International Code Council (ICC) Certification(s). 
International Code Council (ICC) Certification(s) is required prior to taking
the Department’s new or renewal examination(s).  In addition to ICC’s
certification, the Department’s examination will be required for each type of
registration and fees collected as specified in this Section.	EXCEPTION:	If the
ICC does not have an examination for a Department registration, the applicant
will be required to take the Department examination only.  	The ICC
Certification may not be required when the Department registration is utilized
by the Department of Public Works for City business only.91.1704.1.4.2. 
Failure to Pass Examination for Registered Deputy Inspector.  Every applicant
who fails to pass a new or renewal examination(s) shall not be eligible for
re-examination until 30 days after taking the previous examination.
 91.1704.2.2.  Fabricator Approval.  Pursuant to LAMC Section 96.200, special
inspections required by this Code are not required where the work is done on the
premises of an Approved Fabricator licensed and approved to perform the work
without special inspection.  Approval shall be based upon review of the
fabricator’s written procedural and quality control manuals and periodic
auditing of fabrication practices by the Department.  At completion of
fabrication, the approved fabricator shall submit a certificate of compliance to
the Superintendent of Building stating that the work was performed in accordance
with the approved construction documents.91.1704.3.1.1. Structural Steel. 
Welding inspection for structural steel shall be in accordance with AWS
D1.1.91.1704.3.1.2. Cold-Formed Steel.  Welding inspection for cold-formed
steel floor and roof decks shall be in accordance with AWS D1.3.91.1704.3.1.3.
Reinforcing Steel.  Welding inspection for reinforcing steel shall be in
accordance with AWS D1.4 and ACI 318.91.1704.4.  Concrete Construction.  The
special inspections and verifications for concrete construction shall be as
required by this Section and CBC Table 1704.4.	EXCEPTIONS:  Special inspection
shall not be required for:	1.	Isolated spread concrete footings of buildings
three stories or less in height that are fully supported on earth or rock, where
the structural design of the footing is based on a specified compressive
strength, f’c, no greater than 2,500 pounds per square inch (psi) (17.2
MPa).	2.	Continuous concrete footings supporting walls of buildings three
stories or less above the grade plane that are fully supported on earth or rock
where:	2.1.	The footings support walls of light-frame construction;	2.2.	The
footings are designed in accordance with CBC Table 1805.4.2; or	2.3.	The
structural design of the footing is based on a specified compressive strength,
f’c, no greater than 2,500 pounds per square inch (psi) (17.2 MPa), regardless
of the compressive strength specified in the construction documents or used in
the footing construction.	3.	Nonstructural concrete slabs supported directly on
the ground, including prestressed slabs on grade, where the effective prestress
in the concrete is less than 150 psi (1.03 MPa).	4.	Concrete foundation walls
constructed in accordance with CBC Table 1807.1.6.2.	5.	Concrete patios,
driveways and sidewalks, on grade.91.1704.7.  Soils.  Special inspections
defined per Sections 7008.2 and 7011.3 of this Code for existing site soil
conditions, fill placement and load-bearing requirements shall be as required by
this Section and Table 1704.7. The approved geotechnical report, and the
construction documents prepared by the registered design professionals shall be
used to determine compliance. During fill placement, the special inspector shall
determine that proper materials and procedures are used in accordance with the
provisions of the approved geotechnical report, as specified in CBC Section
1803.5.	EXCEPTION: Special inspection is not required during placement of
controlled fill having a total depth of 12 inches (305 mm) or less and where the
fill is not used for graded slopes or for support of footings or
foundations.TABLE 1704.7
REQUIRED VERIFICATION AND INSPECTION OF SOILS
  
    
      
        VERIFICATION AND INSPECTION TASK
      
      
        CONTINUOUS DURING TASK LISTED 
      
      
        PERIODIC ALLY DURING TASK LISTED
      
    
    
      
        1.   Verify materials below shallow foundations are adequate    to
achieve the design bearing capacity.
      
      
        -
      
      
        X
      
    
    
      
        2. Verify excavations are extended to proper depth and have reached
proper material.
      
      
        -
      
      
        X
      
    
    
      
        3. Perform classification and testing of compacted fill materials.
      
      
        -
      
      
        X
      
    
    
      
        4. Verify use of proper materials, densities and lift thicknesses during
placement and compaction of compacted fill.
      
      
        Xa
      
      
        Xa
      
    
    
      
        5. Prior to placement of compacted fill, observe subgrade and verify
that site has been prepared properly.
      
      
        -
      
      
        X
      
    
  
	a.	Frequency of special inspections to be determined by the registered design
professional responsible for the project.91.1704.7.1.  Grading.  A registered
Grading Inspector is required under all conditions here the site grading or
foundation earthwork planned on a project has any of the following:	1.1.	A
contiguous grading area exceeding 60,000 square feet (5574 m2).	1.2.	An
excavated or filled slope steeper than 2 horizontal in 1 vertical (50 percent
slope).	1.3.	An excavated slope exceeding 40 feet (12,192 mm) in height and the
top of which is within 20 feet (6096 mm) of a property line coterminous with
improved private property or a public way.  	1.4. 	Foundation excavations below
a 1 horizontal in 1 vertical plane inward and down from the property
line.	EXCEPTION:  The department may waive continuous inspection where minor
areas or heights are involved and no unusual hazards exist.91.1704.8.  Driven
Deep Foundations and Connecting Grade Beams.  Special inspections shall be
performed during installation and testing of driven deep foundation elements as
required by CBC Table 1704.8.  The approved geotechnical report, required by
CBC Section 1803.2, and the construction documents prepared by the registered
design professional in responsible charge shall be used to determine
compliance.  Special inspections for connecting grade beams shall be in
accordance with Section 91.1704.4 of this Code.91.1704.9. Cast-in-Place Deep
Foundations and Connecting Grade Beams.  Special inspections shall be performed
during installation and testing of cast-in-place deep foundation elements as
required by CBC Table 1704.9.  The approved geotechnical report, required by
CBC Section 1803.2, and the construction documents prepared by the registered
design professional in responsible charge shall be used to determine
compliance.  Special inspections for connecting grade beams shall be in
accordance with Section 91.1704.4 of this Code.91.1704.17.  Certifications by
Architect, Engineer or Geologist.  If a structure or portion of a structure has
been designed to utilize higher stresses requiring continuous inspection, the
architect or engineer in charge of the design shall certify by signature to the
Department that to the best of his or her knowledge, the structure or portion
utilizing higher stresses was constructed in conformity with the approved
design.  If the grading or foundation earthwork has required continuous
inspection, the responsible engineering geologist or soils engineer shall
certify by signature to the Department that to the best of his or her knowledge
the field work was completed in conformity with the technical design
data.91.1704.18.  Department’s Responsibility.  The employment of a
Registered Deputy Inspector for any work does not deprive the Department of the
right to make periodic or called inspections of all or portions of the work. 
On any work requiring continuous inspection by a Registered Deputy Inspector,
the called inspections required by Section 91.108 of this Code may be delegated
to the Registered Deputy Inspector by the Superintendent of
Building.91.1704.19.  Structural, Termite and Fungus Damage.  Every building
raised from its foundation shall be inspected.  If there is any superficial
evidence of structural damage, termites or fungus growth, the permittee shall
remove and renew the damaged or infested members before reseating the building
or moving it from its existing site or into the City.91.1704.20.  Emergencies
or Catastrophes.  In the event of an emergency or of a major catastrophe in the
City, the Department may deputize Emergency Building Inspectors for the
Department.  The inspectors shall receive no compensation from the City, and
they shall be appointed for the periods of time the Department deems
advisable.91.1704.21. Special Activity Inspection.  In addition to the
construction or work inspected as described in Sections 91.108 and 91.1704
through 91.1718 of this Code, there are other construction activities that are
sufficiently important to the structural stability of the structure, the
occupants of and the fire and life safety of the structure that inspection by a
specially qualified inspector of these activities is necessary in order to
ensure compliance with the requirements of this Code.  These special activity
inspections may occur during off-site fabrication or during on-site
construction.	Inspections by Department Approved Special Activity Inspectors
will be required in accordance with regulations promulgated by the
Superintendent of Building where:	1.	The structure is more than five stories or
60 feet (18,288 mm) in height.	2.	The structure exceeds 50,000 square feet (4645
m2) of ground area or 200,000 square feet (18 580 m2) of total floor
area.	3.	Nondestructive structural testing methods are utilized.	4.	The quality
identification markings of the materials used are not inspectable after
installation.	5.	The manner of use of materials precludes full inspection after
installation.	EXCEPTION:   The Department may waive continuous or periodic
inspection required by this Section where minor quantities are involved and no
unusual hazards exist.	In addition to the projects included in the above
categories, the Superintendent of Building may require Special Activity
inspections if the Superintendent determines that these inspections are needed
to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Code and the work
involves:	1.	Unique, novel or innovative construction;	2.	Highly complex or
intricate construction;	3.	Unique, novel or innovative grading, earth support or
foundation procedures; or	4.	New methods of construction not yet provided for in
the rules and regulations.	Special Activity inspection authority will be
determined on a case by case basis and will require Deputy Inspector
registration.  The Superintendent of Building shall adopt rules and regulations
implementing the provisions of this Section.  These regulations may establish
and set the requirements for different types of Department Approved Special
Activity Inspectors.91.1704.21.1. Special Activity Inspection
Authority.91.1704.21.2. Registration.  The procedures and conditions of
registration as a Special Activity Inspector shall be the same as applicable to
a Registered Deputy Inspector under Section 91.1704.1.3, except that the extent
and duration of special inspection authority shall be as specified in the rules
and regulations adopted by the Superintendent of Building.91.1704.21.3.
Duties.  Except as otherwise indicated by regulations promulgated by the
Superintendent of  Building, the duties and responsibilities for a Special
Activity Inspector shall be the same as specified for a Registered Deputy
Inspector under Section 91.1704.1.4 of this Code.91.1704.21.4. Fees.  The
procedures for the examination, registration and renewal of authority as a
Special Activity Inspector shall be the same as specified for Registered Deputy
Inspectors under Section 91.1704.1.3 of this Code.  91.1704.21.5. Renewal
Process.  Section 91.1704.1.3 applies to the application, examination and
renewal process for registration as a Special Activity Inspector.91.1704.22.
Certification of Welders.91.1704.22.1. The Department shall establish
procedures, rules and regulations for the issuance of Welder’s
Certifications.	A fee of $110.00 shall be paid on each application for
certification or renewal.  $50.00 of the fee shall be paid prior to the
Department’s examination for a new certification and the remaining amount
shall be paid after the examination.  Certificates shall be issued for a period
of three years and may be renewed for additional three-year
periods.91.1704.22.2. The Superintendent of Building shall suspend or revoke any
certificate upon evidence of failure of the person so certified to conduct
welding operations in compliance with any of the conditions upon which it is
based, or where quality of workmanship is not equivalent to that required by the
code, or for any of the reasons set forth in Article 8, Chapter IX of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.  Any action shall be in accordance with the provisions
of Article 8, Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.
