                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PREFABRICATED CONSTRUCTION. (§ 91.1718)

  PREFABRICATED CONSTRUCTION.91.1718.1.  General.91.1718.1.1.  Purpose.  The
purpose of this section is to regulate materials and establish methods of safe
construction where any structure or portion of the structure is wholly or
partially prefabricated.91.1718.1.2.  Scope.  Unless otherwise specifically
stated in this section, all prefabricated construction and all materials used in
the construction shall conform to all the requirements of this Code.  (See
Section 91.104.2.6.)91.1718.1.3.  Definition.	PREFABRICATED ASSEMBLY is a
structural unit, the integral parts of which have been built up or assembled
prior to incorporation in the building.91.1718.2.  Tests of Materials.  Every
approval of a material not specifically mentioned in this Code shall incorporate
as a proviso, the kind and number of tests to be made during
prefabrication.91.1718.3.  Tests of Assemblies.  The Superintendent of
Building may require special tests to be made on assemblies to determine their
durability and weather resistance.91.1718.4.  Connections.  See CBC Section
1611.11.1 for design requirements of connections for prefabricated
assemblies.91.1718.5.  Pipes and Conduits.  See CBC Section 1611.11.2 for
design requirements for removal of material for pipes, conduits and other
equipment.91.1718.6.  Certificate and Inspection.91.1718.6.1.  Materials. 
Materials and the assembly of materials shall be inspected to determine
compliance with this Code.  Every material shall be graded, marked or labeled
where required elsewhere in this Code.91.1718.6.2.  Certificate.  A
Certificate of Approval shall be furnished with every prefabricated assembly,
except where the assembly is readily accessible to inspection at the site.  The
Certificate of Approval shall certify that the assembly in question has been
inspected and meets all the requirements of this Code.  When mechanical
equipment is installed so that it cannot be inspected at the site, the
Certificate of Approval shall certify that the equipment complies with all
applicable laws and regulations.91.1718.6.3.  Certifying Agency.  To be
acceptable under this Code, every Certificate of Approval shall be made by an
approved agency.91.1718.6.4.  Field Erection.  Placement of prefabricated
assemblies at the building site shall be inspected by the Department to
determine compliance with this Code.91.1718.6.5.  Continuous Inspection.  If
continuous inspection is required for certain materials where construction takes
place on the site, it shall also be required where the same materials are used
in prefabricated construction.	EXCEPTION:  Continuous inspection will not be
required during prefabrication if the approved agency certifies to the
construction and furnishes evidence of compliance.
