                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES. (§ 91.107)

  FEES.
	(Amended in Entirety by Ord. No. 171,668, Eff. 8/28/97.)91.107.1.  General. 
shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of this
section.91.107.1.1.  Annual Review of Fees.  The fees in this code shall be
reviewed annually by the Superintendent of Building.  Beginning on July 1,
2010, and thereafter on July 1, of every year, the amount of each fee in this
code shall be adjusted as follows:  Calculate the percentage movement between
July of the previous year and July of the current year in the Consumer Price
Index – All Urban Consumers in the Los Angeles area, as published by the
United States Government Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Adjust each fee by said
percentage amount and round off to the nearest ten cents, provided, however, no
fee shall exceed the reasonable cost of providing services.  When it is
determined that the amount reasonably necessary to recover the cost of providing
services is in excess of this adjustment, the Superintendent of Building may
present fee proposals to the City Council for approval.  (Added by Ord. No.
180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)91.107.2.  Permit Fees.  Before issuing any permit
required by this code, the Department shall collect a fee.91.107.2.1.  Building
Permit.  Unless otherwise required below, the amount of the permit fee shall be
as shown in Table No. 1-A of this code for the total value of all construction
work for which the building permit is issued, including all painting, papering,
roofing, electrical work, plumbing, permanent or fixed heating equipment,
elevator equipment, fire sprinkler equipment and any other permanent portions or
permanent equipment except as provided in Section 91.106 of this code.	No
portion of any building, including mechanical, electrical and plumbing work
shall be excluded from the valuation for a building permit because of any other
permits required by any governing agency.91.107.2.2.  Combined
Building-Mechanical Permit.  A combined building- mechanical permit shall be
issued, provided a fee is paid.  The permit fee shall be as determined by using
Table No. 1-A.1 of this code.  A combined building-mechanical permit shall
entitle the permittee to the inspection of all building, electrical, plumbing,
heating, ventilating and air conditioning work in the following systems:	1.	A
new one- or two-family dwelling.	2.	Any work necessary and in conjunction with
alterations, additions or demolitions to a one- or two-family dwelling.  In the
event that work in one or more of the mechanical trades is not required, the
applicable fee(s) shall not be collected.	3.	A pool accessory to a one- or
two-family dwelling, except that for pools which are exempt from a building
permit but may require a permit for electrical, plumbing and heating work, a
combined building-mechanical permit shall be issued, provided a fee is paid. 
The fee shall be 75 percent of the fee determined from Table No. 1-A of this
division.	4.	A complete solar heating and/or cooling system installation
appurtenant to and used exclusively by a one- or two-family dwelling; or an
individual dwelling unit or an efficiency dwelling unit in an apartment house,
apartment-hotel or hotel; or a pool accessory to a one-family
dwelling.91.107.2.3.  Sign Building Permit.  Before issuing a building permit
for any sign, the Department shall collect a permit fee.  The amount of the
permit fee shall be equal to 3.50 percent of the total value of all construction
or work, as determined by the Department, for which the building permit is
issued, but in no event shall the permit fee be less than the minimum inspection
fee as specified in Section 98.0412 (a) of the Los Angeles Municipal Code and
Footnote No. 4 of Table No. 1-A of this division.  The sign building permit
shall be subject to the surcharge specified in Footnote No. 1 of Table No. 1-A
of this division.91.107.2.4.  Grading Permit.  Before issuing any grading
permit, the Department shall collect a permit fee, the amount of which shall be
as shown in Table No. 1-D of this code.91.107.2.5.  Earthquake Hazard Reduction
in Existing Tilt-up Concrete Wall Buildings Permit.  The permit fee for
construction work which the Department determines is necessary to satisfy the
requirements contained in Section 91.9108 of this code, shall be based on the
entire floor area of the building requiring any strengthening work.  The fee
shall be equal to $0.0347 per square foot or fraction thereof of the subject
building.91.107.2.6.  Permit Issuing Fee When Plan Check Is Not Required.  See
Section 98.0415 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.107.2.7.  Certificate of
Occupancy for Use of Land Permit.  A fee of $150.00 shall be charged for each
Certificate of Occupancy for use of land; however, no fee shall be charged when
a Certificate of Occupancy is being issued pursuant to Section 91.109 of this
code or when any work which requires a building permit is done.91.107.2.8. 
Awning Installation Permit.  Every awning erected and arranged so that
temporary shelter may be provided over any portion of a public way shall be
subject to an installation fee of $10.00 per awning, but in no event shall the
installation fee per building be less than the minimum inspection fee specified
in Section 98.0412 (a) of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.107.3.  Plan Check
and Preinspection Fees.91.107.3.1.  Plan Check Fees.  Before formally
accepting a set of plans and specifications for checking, the Department shall
collect a plan check fee.  Plan checking shall expire if permit is not secured
within the time limits specified in Section 98.0603 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.91.107.3.1.1.  Buildings and Structures.  Unless otherwise required
below, the plan check fee for buildings, structures or portions thereof shall be
equal to 90 percent of the building permit fee as shown in Table No. 1-A of this
code.	EXCEPTION:  Where the occupancy of a residential building or portion
thereof is changed, the plan checking fee shall be based on a valuation equal to
85 percent of the replacement value of the building or portion
changed.91.107.3.1.2.  Signs and Sign Support Structures. The plan check fee
for signs and/or sign support structures shall be equal to 50 percent of the
building permit fee as indicated in Section 91.107.2.3 of this
code.91.107.3.1.3.  Grading Work. The plan check fee for grading plans shall be
90 percent of the grading permit fee as indicated by Section 91.107.2.4 of this
code.  The fee for grading work on two or more contiguous sites may be the
amount indicated for the sum of the total cubic yards in all the separate
sites.	EXCEPTION:  A grading plan check fee will not be required for jobs of 50
cubic yards (38.3 m3) or less.91.107.3.1.4.  Hourly Plan Check Fee.  The
Department may collect a plan check fee as specified in Section 98.0415(e) of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code for any time not included by the original plan
check fee and shall be in addition to other fees specified in this
code.91.107.3.1.5.  Tilt-Up Concrete Wall Buildings. The plan check fee for
construction pursuant to the requirements of the Earthquake Hazard Reduction in
Existing Tilt-up Concrete Wall Buildings contained in Division 91 of this code
shall be equal to the building permit fee as specified in Section
91.107.2.5.91.107.3.1.6.  Plan Check Fees for More Than One Building.  When
two or more buildings are to be erected on the same site and the following
regulations are complied with, the plan checking fee, if of a lesser amount, may
be the fee indicated for the sum of the values of all the separate
buildings.91.107.3.1.6.1.  All of the buildings shall be shown on the one set
of plans and specifications.91.107.3.1.6.2.  Applications for separate permits
for each building shall be filed prior to the checking of the
plans.91.107.3.1.6.3.  Two sets of plans and specifications shall be submitted
to the Department.91.107.3.1.7.  Plan Check Fees for Duplicate Buildings. 
When two or more buildings are to be erected from identical plans and
specifications and the following regulations are complied with, the plan
checking fee, if of a lesser amount, may be the fee indicated for the sum of the
values of all the separate buildings.91.107.3.1.7.1.  Applications for separate
permits for each building shall be filed prior to the checking of the
plans.91.107.3.1.7.2.  A site plat shall accompany each application for a
permit.91.107.3.1.7.3.  The number of sets of plans and specifications
submitted to the Department shall be one more than the number of applications
for permits.91.107.3.1.7.4.  Footings for one or more of the buildings may
deviate from the plans and specifications provided that, in each instance,
separate footing plans are submitted to the Department.91.107.3.1.8.  Fees for
Rechecking Plans.  No additional fee shall be charged for verification of the
corrections required by the Department or other Departments.  However, when
plans are revised by the applicant for reasons other than plan check correction
and require additional plan check time to review the plan revisions, the
Department shall collect a supplemental plan check fee as specified in Section
91.107.3.1.4.	When plans are resubmitted for review of changes made to
previously approved plans, an application for a permit shall be filed.	The plan
checking fee in the case of a building permit shall be based on an hourly rate
as specified in Section 91.107.3.1.4 and the plan check fee for a grading permit
shall be as specified in Section 91.107.3.1.3 for the number of cubic yards
replaced, removed or omitted that were not previously approved.	When a permit
expires by limitation and the work is not completed, the plans shall be
resubmitted for checking before the issuance of a new permit.  The plan
checking fee shall be based on the same valuation as specified for the permit in
Section 91.106.4.4.91.107.3.2.  Preinspection Fees.  The Department shall
collect a fee of $121.00 for each of the following:  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)	1.	Grading Preinspection.  A grading preinspection fee
shall be collected for any building permit application involving work in the
hillside grading area and for all grading plans submitted to the
Department.	EXCEPTION:  The grading preinspection fee may be waived when the
Department determines that the nature of the work does not require preinspection
of the work site.	2.	Sign Preinspection.  A sign preinspection fee shall be
collected when a permit application is filed for construction, replacement,
alteration or repair of a sign.	EXCEPTION:  The sign preinspection fee may be
waived when the Department determines that the nature of the sign does not
require preinspection of the proposed location to determine compliance with
applicable requirements.	3.	Demolition Preinspection.  (Amended by Ord. No.
172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  A demolition preinspection fee shall be
collected for all proposed demolition of buildings (including accessory
buildings) or structures on a site and shall be conducted before the issuance of
a demolition permit.	EXCEPTION:  The demolition preinspection and demolition
preinspection fee may be waived when the Department determines that previous
inspections associated with the Department’s abatement programs have been
made.	4.	Preinspection.  Preinspection fee shall be collected whenever the
Department determines that due to the nature of the work involved, an inspection
is necessary.	5.	Medical Marijuana Collective Pre-inspection.  (Added by Ord.
No. 181,069, Eff. 3/14/10*.)  A preinspection fee pursuant to Section 45.19.6.2
D. of the Los Angeles Municipal Code shall be collected by the Department to
verify compliance with Section 45.19.6.3 A. of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. 
The preinspection fee shall be in addition to any other fee that the Department
determines is necessary due to the nature of the work involved.*Note: See Sec. 3
of this ordinance, as clarified by Sec. 10 of Ord. No. 181,157, regarding the
effective date.91.107.3.3.  Fees for Off-hour Plan Check.  Upon request by an
applicant and accepted by the Department, an off-hour plan check fee per Section
98.0422 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code may be collected.91.107.4.  Permit
Related Fees.  When applicable, the following supplemental fees shall be
required prior to issuance of a permit.91.107.4.1.  Supplemental Building
Permit Fees.  A fee for a supplementary building permit to cover any additional
valuation to work included in the original permit shall be the difference
between the fee paid for the original permit and the fee which would have been
required had the original permit included the entire evaluation.	A fee for a
building permit authorizing changes from approved plans or specifications shall
be based on a valuation equal to the increase in valuation caused by the change,
but no refund shall be made if the change causes a reduction of
valuation.91.107.4.2.  Supplemental Grading Permit Fees.  The fee for a
supplementary grading permit authorizing additional work to that under a valid
permit shall be the difference between the fee paid for the original permit and
the fee shown for the entire project.91.107.4.3.  Plan Maintenance Fees. 
Before issuing a building permit, the Department shall collect a fee for
maintaining building plans which are required to be retained by Section
91.106.4.2 of this Code.	The amount of the plan maintenance fee shall be 2
percent of the building permit fee, but not less than $10.00 and not more than
$300.00, and shall be collected for each separate plan to be retained by the
Department.91.107.4.4.  Fire Hydrant Fee Notice.  Before issuing any building
permit required by this code, if the total value of all new construction or work
for which the permit is issued is $50,000 or greater, as determined by the
Department, the Department shall collect a fire hydrant fee.  The amount of
this fee shall be equal to 22/100 of 1 percent of the total value of all
construction or work for which the permit is issued.  If the applicant for a
building permit subject to the fire hydrant fee pays such fee under protest or
refuses to pay such fee, the Department may issue the permit, but shall affix to
the permit a Fire Hydrant Fee Notice to read as follows:FIRE HYDRANT FEE
NOTICE:The City of Los Angeles may amend the Fire Hydrant Fee Ordinance.	The
owner of the project designated in this permit shall be obligated to pay to the
Department a fire hydrant fee in the amount to be calculated pursuant to any
amendment to the fire hydrant fee ordinance.  This fee will be used to provide
adequate fire-safety facilities and services for new development.	EXCEPTION:  A
fire hydrant fee shall not apply to any permit for demolition of a building or
structure.	The Department of Building and Safety shall cause all money collected
pursuant to this section to be deposited into the Fire Hydrant Installation and
Main Replacement Fund described in Section 5.114 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code for purposes of disbursement as permitted therein; except
that $5.00 from each fire hydrant fee shall be deposited in the Department of
Building and Safety Building Permit Enterprise Fund pursuant to Section 5.114 of
the Los Angeles Administrative Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff.
5/12/09.)91.107.4.5.  Metal Bars, Grilles, Grates, Security Roll-Down Shutters
and Similar Devices.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,829, Eff. 10/27/02, Oper.
11/1/02.)  The permit fee for the installation of devices for which a permit is
required by Section 91.6304.3 of this Code shall be $25.00 for each affected
dwelling unit, efficiency dwelling unit, light housekeeping room or guest room
in a residential building.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	The Department shall issue a permit
without collection of a fee if it determines that the following conditions are
met:	A.	The metal bars, grilles, grates, security roll down shutters and similar
devices were installed prior to June 3, 1986, and	B.	The dwelling unit is in
full compliance with C.B.C. Section 310.4 when the first inspection is conducted
pursuant to C.B.C. Section 310.4.	2.	The Department shall issue a permit without
the collection of a fee for all eligible lower income households, as defined by
California Health and Safety Code Section 50079.5.  The Department shall
determine whether the applicant meets the applicable criteria for
eligibility.91.107.4.6.  Arts Development Fee.91.107.4.6.1.  Arts Fee.  The
owner of a development project for a commercial or industrial building shall be
required to pay an arts fee in accordance with the requirements of this
section.91.107.4.6.2.  Fee Amount.  The Department of Building and Safety
shall collect an arts fee in the following amount:	1.	Office or research and
development.  For an office or research and development building, the arts fee
shall be $1.57 per square foot.	2.	Retail.  All retail establishments shall pay
an arts fee of $1.31 per square foot.	3.	Manufacturing.  For a manufacturing
building, the arts fee shall be $0.51 per square foot.	4.	Warehouse.  For a
warehouse building, the arts fee shall be $0.39 per square foot.	5.	Hotel.  For
a hotel building, the arts fee shall be $0.52 per square foot.	In no event shall
the required arts fee exceed either $1.57 per gross square foot of any structure
authorized by the permit or one percent of the valuation of the project
designated on the permit, whichever is lower, as determined by the Department of
Building and Safety.  Where there are combined uses within a development
project or portion thereof, the arts fee shall be the sum of the fee
requirements of the various uses listed above.  The Cultural Affairs Department
shall revise the arts fee annually by an amount equal to the Consumer Price
Index for Los Angeles as published by the United States Department of Labor. 
The revised amount shall be submitted to Council for adoption by
ordinance.91.107.4.6.3.  Time of Collection.  Except as provided in Section
91.107.4.6, the Department of Building and Safety shall collect an arts fee
before issuance of a building permit for commercial and industrial buildings
required by this code.91.107.4.6.4.  EXCEPTIONS:  The arts fee required by
Section 91.107.4.6 shall not be assessed for the following projects or portions
thereof:	1.	Any project for which the total value of all construction or work
for which the permit is issued is $500,000 or less.	2.	The repair, renovation or
rehabilitation of a building or structure that does not alter the size or
occupancy load of the building.	3.	The repair, renovation or rehabilitation of a
building or structure for the installation of fire sprinklers pursuant to
Division 9.	4.	The repair, renovation or rehabilitation of a building or
structure that has been made to comply with Division 88 (Earthquake Hazard
Reduction in Existing Buildings) subsequent to a citation of noncompliance with
Division 88.	5.	The repair, renovation or rehabilitation of a building or
structure for any handicapped facilities pursuant to this code.	6.	All
residential buildings or portion thereof.  This exception does not include
hotels.91.107.4.6.5.  Use of Arts Fees Acquired Pursuant to Section
91.107.4.6.  Any arts fee collected by the Department of Building and Safety
shall be deposited in the Arts Development Fee Trust Fund.  Any fee paid into
this fund may be used only for the purpose of providing cultural and artistic
facilities, services and community amenities which will be available to the
development project and its future employees.  Any cultural and artistic
facilities, services and community amenities provided shall comply with the
principles and standards set forth in the Cultural Master Plan when adopted.	At
or about the time of collection of any fee imposed by this section, the Cultural
Affairs Department shall identify the use to which the arts fee is to be put,
and if the use is financing public facilities, the facilities shall be
identified.91.107.4.6.6.  Projects Covered by Ordinance 164,243.  (Ord. No.
173,300, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) In 1988, the City enacted Ordinance
164,243 which states in part:	“This ordinance is an interim measure while the
City of Los Angeles is giving consideration to the enactment of an Arts
Development Fee Ordinance.  The owners of a development project shall be
obligated to pay an Arts Development Fee if such fee is adopted in the future by
the city.  The fee will not exceed one percent (1%) of the total value of work
and construction authorized by the building permit issued to a development
project.  This fee would be used to provide adequate cultural and artistic
facilities, services and community amenities for the project.”	By enacting
Section 91.107.4.6 (previously Section 91.0304(b)(11)), the City has adopted the
Arts Development Fee referred to by Ordinance 164,243.  Accordingly, an arts
fee shall be paid to the City of Los Angeles by owners of development projects
which received building permits between and including January 15, 1989, and the
effective date of this section.  This arts fee described in this section shall
be paid within 60 days of receipt of a request for payment of an arts fee.  All
exceptions listed in Section 91.107.4.6.4 shall apply to owners of development
projects subject to Ordinance 164,243.	The Office of Finance shall bill and
collect the Arts Development Fee owed by those persons to whom notice was given
pursuant to this paragraph for the period January 15, 1989, through May 7,
1991.  The amount due shall be paid in full within 60 days of the billing date
unless an agreement to pay in installments pursuant to this paragraph is
approved by the Office of Finance.  Persons indebted to the City of Los Angeles
for Arts Development Fees may, upon approval by the Office of Finance, enter
into an agreement with the City of Los Angeles to pay such fees in installments
over a period not to exceed one year.  The Office of Finance shall collect a
service fee of $10.00 on each monthly installment to recover the cost to the
city of processing installment payments.  The Cultural Affairs Department is
hereby authorized to negotiate and accept payment in kind for the Arts
Development Fee owed by those persons to whom notice was given pursuant to this
paragraph for the period January 15, 1989, through May 7, 1991.  The Cultural
Affairs Department shall provide notice to the Office of Finance of the name of
the person on whose account such in kind payment was accepted, and whether the
in kind payment constitutes payment in full or only a specified portion of the
Arts Development Fee owed.	The Office of Finance is authorized to record payment
in full, without further notification to the person billed, for cash or in kind
Arts Development Fee payments received that are within $3.00 of the amount
owed.91.107.4.7.  Affordable Housing Mitigation Fee Notice.  Before issuance
of a building permit for any project or structure, the Department of Building
and Safety shall affix to the permit an Affordable Housing Mitigation Fee Notice
to read as follows:	Affordable Housing Mitigation Fee Notice: The City of Los
Angeles is considering the enactment of an Affordable Housing Mitigation Fee
Ordinance.  The owner of the project designated in this permit shall be
obligated to comply with an Affordable Housing Mitigation Fee Ordinance, if such
an ordinance is adopted in the future by the city.  In no event shall the
required fee exceed either $5.00 per square foot of the structure(s) authorized
by the permit or 3.5 percent of the valuation of the project designated on the
permit, as determined by the Department of Building and Safety, whichever is
lower.  This fee shall be used to mitigate any affordable housing needs created
by the project.	EXCEPTION:  The notice required by this section shall not be
affixed to building permits for the following projects or portion
thereof:	1.	Any project for which a building permit is issued with less than
40,000 square feet (3716 m2) of new floor area as determined by the Department
of Building and Safety;	2.	Any project located within the boundaries of an
enterprise zone designated in Section 12.04 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code;	3.	Any project developed by nonprofit entities such as hospitals, schools,
religious institutions, museums, day care providers and other similar
organizations, where the construction is directly related to the nonprofit
purpose of the organization as determined by the Community Development
Department.  This exception shall not apply to nonprofit development of
leasable commercial office space;	4.	Any project or portion of a project for
industrial, warehouse development or parking structures as defined by the Los
Angeles Municipal Code and determined by the Department of Building and
Safety;	5.	Any project within a current neighborhood Community Redevelopment
Agency project area as defined in Section 12.04 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code other than the Bunker Hill, Central Business District and Little Tokyo
redevelopment areas;	6.	Any development project where one or more of the
following discretionary approvals, initiated by application of the property
owner or their representatives, was granted by a government agency between
January 1, 1986, and October 1, 1989, and remains valid: zone change,
conditional use permit, variance, height district change, zone boundary
adjustment, specific plan exception, project permit pursuant to a moratorium
ordinance, development agreement, coastal development permit, commercial corner
development pursuant to Section 12.27I8 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
project permit pursuant to an interim control ordinance, parcel map, tract map
or vesting tentative tract map.	In addition, prior to the issuance of any such
building permit, the Department of Planning shall certify in writing that the
necessary environmental clearances were completed and that the discretionary
approval included a determination of one or more of the following: building
location, height, density, use, parking and access of the proposed
project;	7.	Any project for which architectural and structural plans sufficient
for a complete plan check for a building permit have been accepted by the
Department of Building and Safety and for which plan check fees were collected
on or before the effective date of this section and for which no subsequent
changes are made to those plans which increase the height, floor area or
occupancy load by more than 5 percent;	8.	Any project for an existing building
which will not result in the addition of over 40,000 square feet (3716 m2) of
new space as determined by the Department of Building and Safety;
and	9.	Residential buildings which contain one or more dwelling units,
efficiency dwelling units, apartment units or the residential portion of a
building that has both residential and nonresidential uses.  This exception
shall not apply to hotels.	10.	Any project located within the boundaries of the
Central City West Specific Plan Area, as defined in Ordinance No. 163,094, if
the developer or project owner agrees by covenant and agreement or development
agreement to abide by the linkage fee and replacement housing obligations set
forth in the Draft Specific Plan for the Central City West Specific Plan Area,
dated November 2, 1989.	11.	The repair, renovation or rehabilitation of a
building or structure of historical, archaeological or architectural
consequence, if such building or structure has been officially designated, or
has been determined by state or federal action to be eligible for designation,
on the National Register of Historic Places, or has been included on the City of
Los Angeles list of Historic Cultural Monuments.	The Department of Building and
Safety shall determine which exceptions apply to any project based on
documentation submitted by the applicant prior to the issuance of the building
permit.91.107.5.  Additional Fees.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99,
Oper. 7/1/99.)91.107.5.1.  Investigation Fees.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,592,
Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  In addition, the Department shall have the
authority to collect investigation fees. For investigation fees of work done
without a valid building permit, see Section 98.0402 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.91.107.5.2.  Other Fees.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff.
6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  The Department shall have the authority to collect a
fee to cover any additional costs incurred by the Department in obtaining code
compliance or issuing a permit for work that was done prior to obtaining the
required permit. This fee shall be in addition to any other fees required by the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.  The Superintendent shall prepare a fee schedule
for this purpose for adoption by ordinance.  The fee schedule for inspections
shall be those fees referenced in Section 98.0412 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.91.107.6.  Refund of Fees.  See Section 98.0420 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code for the procedure.91.107.7.  Processing Fees for Security Bar
Certificates of Compliance.  The Department of Building and Safety shall charge
a $20.00 fee for the processing of each Security Bar Certificate of
Compliance.  The Department shall maintain on file Security Bar Certificates of
Compliance.	Certified security bar installers shall file Security Bar
Certificates of Compliance in accordance with provisions of Section
91.108.12.3.2 of this code.91.107.8.  Processing Fees for Soils Engineering,
Foundation Investigation, Geology and Seismology Report and for Review of
Division of Land Requests.91.107.8.1. Soils Engineering, Foundation
Investigation, Geology and Seismology Report.  A fee shall be charged for the
processing of each soil, foundation investigation, geology, or seismology report
and the amount of the fee shall be determined from Table No. 1-C.91.107.8.2. 
Division of Land.  Where the Department is required to review a division of
land request as part of the City Planning Division of Land procedures, a fee of
$453.00, shall be paid prior to the initiation of such review.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)
