                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONVENTIONAL LIGHT-FRAME CONSTRUCTION. (§ 91.2308)

  CONVENTIONAL LIGHT-FRAME CONSTRUCTION.
	(Amended by Ord. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	Section 2308 of the CBC is adopted by
reference, except that Sections 2308.3.4, 2308.12.1, 2308.12.2, 2308.12.4 and
2308.12.5 of the CBC are not adopted and in lieu Sections 91.2308.3.4,
91.2308.12.1, 91.2308.12.2, 91.2308.12.4, 91.2308.12.5 and Table 2308.12.4 are
added. 91.2308.3.4. Braced Wall Line Support.  Braced wall lines shall be
supported by continuous foundations.	EXCEPTION:  For structures with a maximum
plan dimension not over 50 feet (15240 mm), continuous foundations are required
at exterior walls only for structures not assigned to Seismic Design Category D,
E or F.91.2308.12.1. Number of Stories.  Structures of conventional light-frame
construction shall not exceed one story in height in Seismic Design Category D
or E.91.2308.12.2. Concrete or Masonry.  Concrete or masonry walls and stone or
masonry veneer shall not extend above the basement.	EXCEPTION:  Stone and
masonry veneer is permitted to be used in the first story above grade plane in
Seismic Design Category D provided the following criteria are met:	1.	The type
of brace in accordance with CBC Section 2308.9.3 shall be Method 3 and the
allowable shear capacity in accordance with CBC Table 2306.4.1 of this division
shall be a minimum of 350 plf (5108 N/m).	2.	The bracing of the first story
shall be located at each end and at least every 25 feet (7620 mm) on center but
not less than 45 percent of the braced wall line.	3.	Hold-down connectors shall
be provided at the ends of braced walls for the first floor to foundation with
an allowable design of 2,100 pounds (9341 N).	4.	Cripple walls shall not be
permitted.	5.	Anchored masonry and stone wall veneer not exceeding five inches
(127 mm) in thickness shall conform to the requirements of Division 14 of this
Code and shall not extend more than five feet (1524 mm) above the first story
finished floor. 91.2308.12.4. Braced Wall Line Sheathing.  Braced wall lines
shall be braced by one of the types of sheathing prescribed by CBC Table
2308.12.4 as shown in CBC Figure 2308.9.3.  The sum of lengths of braced wall
panels at each braced wall line shall conform to CBC Table 2308.12.4.  Braced
wall panels shall be distributed along the length of the braced wall line and
start at not more than 8 feet (2438 mm) from each end of the braced wall line. 
Panel sheathing joints shall occur over studs or blocking.  Sheathing shall be
fastened to studs, top and bottom plates and at panel edges occurring over
blocking.  Wall framing to which sheathing used for bracing is applied shall be
nominal 2 inch wide [actual 1 1/2 inch (38 mm)] or larger members, spaced a
maximum of 16 inches on center.  Nailing shall be minimum 8d common placed 3/8
inches from panel edges and spaced not more than 6 inches on center, and 12
inches on center along intermediate framing members.  Braced wall panel
construction types shall not be mixed within a braced wall line.  Braced wall
panels required by CBC Section 2308.12.4 may be eliminated when all of the
following requirements are met:	1.	One story detached Group U occupancies not
more than 25 feet in depth or length.	2.	The roof and three enclosing walls are
solid sheathed with 1/2-inch nominal thickness wood structural panels with 8d
common nails placed 3/8 inches from panel edges and spaced not more than 6
inches on center along all panel edges and 12 inches on center along
intermediate framing members.  Wall openings for doors or windows are permitted
provided a minimum 4 foot wide wood structural braced panel with minimum height
to length ratio of 2 to 1 is provided at each end of the wall line and that the
wall line be sheathed for 50% of its length.	Wood structural panel sheathing
shall be minimum of 15/32 inch thick nailed with a 8d common placed 3/8 inches
from panel edges and spaced not more than 6 inches on center and 12 inches on
center along intermediate framing members.TABLE 2308.12.4
WALL BRACING IN SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORIES D AND E
(Minimum Length of Wall Bracing Per Each 25LinearFeet of Braced Wall Line a)
  
    
      
        Condition
      
      
        SHEATHING TYPE b
      
      
        SDS < 0.50
      
      
        0.50 ≤ SDS < 0.75
      
      
        0.75 ≤ SDS ≤ 1.00
      
      
        SDS > 1.00
      
    
    
      
        One Story
      
      
        G-P c
      
      
        10 feet 8inches
      
      
        14 feet 8inches
      
      
        18 feet 8inches
      
      
        25 feet 0inches
      
    
    
      
        S-W d
      
      
        5 feet 4inches
      
      
        8 feet 0inches
      
      
        9 feet 4inches
      
      
        12 feet 0inches
      
    
  
For SI: one inch = 25.4 mm, one foot = 304.8 mm.a.	Minimum length of panel
bracing of one face of the wall for S-W sheathing shall be at least
4′-0&#038;″ long or both faces of the wall for G-P sheathing shall be at
least 8′-0&#038;″ long; h/w ratio shall not exceed 2:1. For S-W panel
bracing of the same material on two faces of the wall, the minimum length is
permitted to be one-half the tabulated value but the h/w ratio shall not exceed
2:1 and design for uplift is required.
b.	G-P = gypsum board, lath and portland cement plaster or gypsum sheathing
boards; S-W = wood structural panels. 
c.	Nailing as specified below shall occur at all panel edges at studs, at top
and bottom plates and, where occurring, at blocking: For 1/2-inch gypsum board,
5d (0.113 inch diameter) cooler nails at 7 inches on center;
	For 5/8-inch gypsum board, No. 11 gage (0.120 inch diameter) at 7 inches on
center; For gypsum sheathing board, 13/4 inches long by 7/16-inch head, diamond
point galvanized nails at 4 inches on center; For gypsum lath, No. 13 gage
(0.092 inch) by 11/8 inches long, 19/64-inch head, plasterboard at 5 inches on
center; For Portland cement plaster, No. 11 gage (0.120 inch) by 11/2 inches
long, 7/16- inch head at 6 inches on center;
d. 	S-W sheathing shall be a minimum of 15/32&#038;″ thick nailed with 8d
common placed 3/8 inches from panel edges and spaced not more than 6 inches on
center and 12 inches on center along intermediate framing members.91.2308.12.5.
Attachment of Sheathing.  Fastening of braced wall panel sheathing shall not be
less than that prescribed in Table 2308.12.4 of this division or CBC Section
2304.9.1. Wall sheathing shall not be attached to framing members by
adhesives.  Staple fasteners in Table 2304.9.1 shall not be used to resist or
transfer seismic forces in structures assigned to Seismic Design Category D, E
or F.	EXCEPTION:  Staples may be used to resist or transfer seismic forces when
the allowable shear values are substantiated by cyclic testing and approved by
the building official.	All braced wall panels shall extend to the roof sheathing
and shall be attached to parallel roof  rafters or blocking above with framing
clips (18 gauge minimum) spaced at maximum 24 inches (6096 mm) on center four 8d
nails per leg (total 8d nails per clip). Braced wall panels shall be laterally
braced at each top corner and at maximum 24 inch (6096 mm) intervals along the
top plate of discontinuous vertical framing.
