                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL. (§ 91.3401)

  GENERAL.	Chapter 34 of the California Building Code is adopted by reference,
except Sections 3401.1, 3401.2, 3401.3, 3401.4.1, 3403.1.1, 3404.1.1, 3405.1,
3405.1.2, 3405.2.1, 3408.1, 3409.1 and 3410 are not adopted and in lieu Sections
91.3401.1, 91.3401.2, 91.3401.3, 91.3401.4.1, 91.3405.1, 91.3405.1.2,
91.3405.2.1, 91.3408.1, 91.3409.1 and 91.3410 are added.91.3401.1. Scope.  In
addition of the requirements of Chapter 34 of the CBC, existing buildings and
structures shall comply with the applicable regulations of Divisions 81, 82, 83,
84, 85, 86, 88, 89 and 91 of this Code and the voluntary earthquake hazard
reduction standards of Divisions 92, 93, 94, 95 and 96 of this Code.	Alteration,
repair or additions to existing bleachers, grandstands and folding and
telescopic seating shall comply with ICC 300-02.91.3401.2. Maintenance. 
Buildings and structures, and parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition.  Devices or safeguards which are required by the CBC shall
be maintained in conformance with the code edition under which installed.  The
owner or the owner’s designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance
of buildings and structures.  To determine compliance with this subsection, the
Department shall have the authority to require a building or structure to be
reinspected.  The requirements of this chapter shall not provide the basis for
removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and devices in
existing structures.  Maintenance of buildings and structures shall comply with
Division 81 and 86 of this Code. 91.3401.3. Compliance.  Alterations, repairs,
additions and changes of occupancy to existing structures shall comply with the
provisions for alterations, repairs, additions and changes of occupancy in the
California Fire Code, California Mechanical Code, California Plumbing Code,
California Residential Code, and California Electrical Code.	[HCD 1] See Chapter
CBC 34, Sections 3403.1.4.3, 3403.1.1 and 3404.1.1 and CCR Title 25, Division 1,
Chapter 1, Subchapter 1, commencing with Article 1, Section 1 for existing
buildings or structures.  	Where there are different requirements in this Code,
the most restrictive requirement shall govern.  Where there is a conflict
between a general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific
requirement shall be applicable.91.3401.4.1. Existing Materials.  Materials
already in use in a building in compliance with requirements or approvals in
effect at the time of their erection or installation shall be permitted to
remain in use unless determined by the Department to be dangerous to life,
health or safety. Where such conditions are determined to be dangerous to life,
health or safety, they shall be mitigated or made safe.91.3403.1.1. Replacement,
Retention and Extension of Original Materials. [HCD1].  The replacement,
retention and extension of original materials, and the use of original methods
of construction, for any building or accessory structure may remain, provided
the aggregate value of work in any 1 year does not exceed 10 percent of the
replacement value, and provided further that no hazardous conditions exist and
provided such building or structure complied with the building code provisions
in effect at the time of original construction and the building or accessory
structure does not become or continue to be a substandard building.  For
additional information, see Health and Safety Code Sections 17912, 17920.3,
17922(d), 17922.3, 17958.8 and 17958.9.	Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation
of the existing portion in excess of 10 percent of the replacement value of
building or structure may be made provided all the work conforms to this Code
for a new building and that no hazardous conditions or substandard buildings are
continued or created in the remainder of the building as a result of such
work.	Whenever the aggregate value of the addition, alterations, repairs, or
rehabilitation of the existing portion is in excess of 50 percent of the
replacement cost of the building or structure, the entire building or structure
shall be made to conform to this Code.91.3404.1.1. Replacement, Retention and
Extension of Original Materials. [HCD1].  The replacement, retention and
extension of original materials, and the use of original methods of
construction, for any building or accessory structure may remain, provided the
aggregate value of work in any one year does not exceed 10 percent of the
replacement value, and provided further that no hazardous conditions and such
building or structure complied with the building code provisions in effect at
the time of original construction and the building or accessory structure does
not become or continue to be a substandard building.  For additional
information, see Health and Safety Code Sections 17912, 17920.3, 17922(d),
17922.3, 17958.8 and 17958.9.	Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation of the
existing portion in excess of 10 percent of the replacement value of building or
structure may be made provided all the work conforms to this Code for a new
building and that no hazardous conditions or substandard buildings as are
continued or created in the remainder of the building as a result of such
work.	Whenever the aggregate value of the addition, alterations, repairs, or
rehabilitation of the existing portion is in excess of 50 percent of the
replacement value of the building or structure, the entire building or structure
shall be made to conform to this Code.91.3405.1.   Buildings and structures,
and parts thereof, shall be repaired in compliance with Section 3401.2.  Work
on nondamaged components that is necessary for the required repair of damaged
components shall be considered part of the repair and shall not be subject to
the requirements for alterations in this chapter.  Routine maintenance required
by Section 3401.2, Division 81, and ordinary repairs exempt from a permit in
accordance with Section 106, and abatement of wear due to normal service
conditions shall not be subject to the requirements for repairs in this
Section.	EXCEPTION:  For state-owned buildings, including those owned by the
University of California and the California State University and the Judicial
Council, the requirements of CBC Sections 3405.2 through 3405.4 are replaced by
the requirements of CBC Sections 3417 through 3423.91.3405.1.2. Replacement,
Retention and Extension of Original Materials. [HCD1] The replacement, retention
and extension of original materials, and the use of original methods of
construction, for any building or accessory structure may remain, provided the
aggregate value of work in any 1 year does not exceed 10 percent of the
replacement value, and provided further that no hazardous conditions exists and
provided such building or structure complied with the building code provisions
in effect at the time of original construction and the building or accessory
structure does not become or continue to be a substandard building.  For
additional information, see Health and Safety Code Sections 17912, 17920.3,
17922(d), 17922.3, 17958.8 and 17958.9.	Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation
of the existing portion in excess of 10 percent of the replacement value of
building or structure may be made provided all the work conforms to this Code
for a new building and that no hazardous conditions or substandard buildings as
are continued or created in the remainder of the building as a result of such
work.	Whenever the aggregate value of the addition, alterations, repairs, or
rehabilitation of the existing portion is in excess of 50 percent of the
replacement cost of the building or structure, the entire building or structure
shall be made to conform to this Code.  91.3405.2.1. Evaluation.  The building
shall be evaluated by a registered design professional, and the evaluation
findings shall be submitted to the code official.  The evaluation shall
establish whether the damaged building, if repaired to its predamage state,
would comply with the provisions of this Code for wind and earthquake loads. 
Evaluation for earthquake loads shall be required if the substantial structural
damage was caused by or related to earthquake effects or if the building is in
Seismic Design Category C, D, E or F.  Wind loads for this evaluation shall be
those prescribed in Section 1609.  Earthquake loads for this evaluation, if
required, shall be permitted to be 75 percent of those prescribed in Section
1613 or loads required by the code effective at the time of the original
construction whichever is greater.  Values of R, W0 and Cd for the existing
seismic force-resisting system shall be those specified by this Code for an
ordinary system unless it is demonstrated that the existing system will provide
performance equivalent to that of an intermediate or special system.91.3408.1.
Conformance.  No change shall be made in the use or occupancy of any building
that would place the building in a different division of the same group of
occupancies or in a different group of occupancies, unless such building is made
to comply with the requirements of this code for such division or group of
occupancies. Subject to the approval of the Department, the use or occupancy of
existing buildings shall be permitted to be changed and the building is allowed
to be occupied for purposes in other groups without conforming to all the
requirements of this Code for those groups, provided the new or proposed use is
less hazardous, based on life and fire risk, than the existing use.  Change of
occupancy, use and rating classification as prescribed in Division 88 shall also
comply with Division 82.91.3409.1. Historic Buildings.  Historic buildings or
structures shall comply with Section 91.8119 of this Code.	Buildings or
structures that are relocated in whole or in part into or within the City of Los
Angeles shall comply with the provisions of Division 83 of this Code.
