                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BASIC PROVISIONS. (§ 91.400)

  
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	Chapter 4 of the California
Building Code is hereby adopted by reference, except that Sections 403.1,
403.5.2, 403.6, 403.6.1, and 403.6.2 are not adopted.  Instead, Sections
91.403.1, 91.403.5.2 and 91.403.6 are added to Article I, Division 4 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code to read as follows.91.403.1.  Applicability.  New
high-rise buildings and new Group I-2 occupancies having occupied floors located
more than 75 feet above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access shall
comply with CBC Sections 403.2 through 403.6.	EXCEPTION:  Except as indicated,
the provisions of CBC Section 403.2 through 403.6 shall not apply to the
following buildings and structures:	1.	Airport control towers in accordance with
CBC Section 412.3.	2.	Open parking garages in accordance with CBC Section
406.3.  Provisions of CBC Sections 403.4.7 and 403.4.8 shall
apply.	3.	Buildings with Group A-5 occupancy in accordance with CBC Section
303.1.  Provisions of CBC Sections 403.4.7 and 403.4.8 shall apply.	4.	Special
industrial occupancies in accordance with CBC Section 503.1.1.  Provisions of
CBC Sections 403.4.7 and 403.4.8 shall apply.	5.	Buildings such as power plants,
lookout towers, steeples, grain houses and similar structures with noncontinuous
human occupancy, when so determined by the enforcing agency.	For existing
high-rise buildings, see CBC Section 3414 and for existing Group R occupancies,
see CBC Section 3413.13.	For the purpose of this Section 91.403.1, in
determining the level from which the highest occupied floor is to be measured,
the enforcing agency should exercise reasonable judgment, including
consideration of overall accessibility to the building by fire department
personnel and vehicular equipment. When a building is located on sloping terrain
and there is building access on more than one level, the enforcing agency may
select the level that provides the most logical and adequate fire department
access.91.403.5.2.  Additional Exit Stairway.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,758,
Eff. 8/8/11.)  For buildings other than Group R-2 that are more than 420 feet
(128 m) in building height, one additional exit stairway meeting the
requirements of CBC Sections 1009 and 1022 shall be provided in addition to the
minimum number of exits required by CBC Section 1021.1. The total width of any
combination of remaining exit stairways with one exit stairway removed shall not
be less than the total width required by CBC Section 1005.1. Scissor stairs
shall not be considered the additional exit stairway required by this
Section.91.403.6.  Elevators.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.) 
Elevator installation and operation in high-rise buildings shall comply with CBC
Chapter 30.
