                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BASIC PROVISIONS. (§ 91.5.400)

  

	Chapter 4 of the CRC is hereby adopted by reference with the following
exceptions, modifications and additions. 

91.5.401.1. Application.  The provisions of this division shall control the
design and construction of the foundation and foundation spaces for all
buildings.  In addition to the provisions of this division, the design and
construction of foundations in areas prone to flooding as established by Table
R301.2(1) shall meet the provisions of CRC Section R322.  Wood foundations
shall be designed and installed in accordance with AF&#038;PA PWF.

	Exception:  The provisions of this Chapter shall be permitted to be used for
wood foundations only in the following situations:

	1.	In buildings that have no more than two floors and a roof;

	2.	When interior basement and foundation walls are constructed at intervals not
exceeding 50 feet (15 240 mm). 

	Wood foundations in Seismic Design Category D0, D1, or D2 shall not be
permitted.

	Exception:  In non-occupied, single-story, detached storage sheds and similar
uses other than carport or garage, provided the gross floor area does not exceed
200 square feet, the plate height does not exceed 12 feet in height above the
grade at any point, and the maximum roof projection does not exceed 24 inches.

91.5.403.1.2. Continuous Footing in Seismic Design Categories D0, D1, and D2. 
The braced wall panels at exterior walls of buildings located in Seismic Design
Categories D0, D1, and D2 shall be supported by continuous footings.  All
required interior braced wall panels in buildings shall also be supported by
continuous footings.

91.5.403.1.3. Seismic Reinforcing.  Concrete footings located in Seismic Design
Categories D0, D1, and D2, as established in Table R301.2(1), shall have minimum
reinforcement.  Bottom reinforcement shall be located a minimum of 3 inches (76
mm) clear from the bottom of the footing.

	In Seismic Design Categories D0, D1, and D2 where a construction joint is
created between a concrete footing and a stem wall, a minimum of one No. 4 bar
shall be installed at not more than 4 feet (1219 mm) on center.  The vertical
bar shall extend to 3 inches (76 mm) clear of the bottom of the footing, have a
standard hook and extend a minimum of 14 inches (357 mm) into the stem wall. 

	In Seismic Design Categories D0, D1, and D2 where a grouted masonry stem wall
is supported on a concrete footing and stem wall, a minimum of one No. 4 bar
shall be installed at not more than 4 feet (1219 mm) on center.  The vertical
bar shall extend to 3 inches (76 mm) clear of the bottom of the footing and have
a standard hook.

	In Seismic Design Categories D0, D1, and D2 masonry stem walls without solid
grout and vertical reinforcing are not permitted.

	Exception:  In detached one- and two-family dwellings located in Seismic
Design Category A, B, or C which are three stories or less in height and
constructed with stud bearing walls, plain concrete footings without
longitudinal reinforcement supporting walls and isolated plain concrete footings
supporting columns or pedestals are permitted.

91.5.403.1.5. Slope.  The top surface of footings shall be level.  The bottom
surface of footings shall not have a slope exceeding one unit vertical in 10
units horizontal (10-percent slope).  Footings shall be stepped where it is
necessary to change the elevation of the top surface of the footings or where
the slope of the bottom surface of the footings will exceed one unit vertical in
ten units horizontal (10-percent slope).  

	For structures located in Seismic Design Categories D0, D1, and D2, or E,
stepped footings shall be reinforced with four 1/2-inch diameter (12.7 mm)
deformed reinforcing bars.  Two bars shall be placed at the top and bottom of
the footing as shown in figure 91.5.403.1.5.


Figure 91.5.403.1.5
Stepped Footing

91.5.404.2. Wood Foundation Walls.  Wood foundation walls shall be constructed
in accordance with the provisions of CRC Sections R404.2.1 through R404.2.6 and
with the details shown in CRC Figures R403.1(2) and R403.2(3).  Wood foundation
walls shall not be used for structures located in Seismic Design Category D0,
D1, or D2.
