                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL PROVISIONS. (§ 91.6201)

  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.6201.1.General.  Section H101.1
of Appendix H of the CBC is adopted by reference.91.6201.2. Sign Permits. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,416, Eff. 12/20/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	1.	A building permit
shall be obtained from the Department in accordance with the provisions of
Section 91.106 of this Code for any sign (including a temporary sign) and/or
sign alteration, other than changes or replacement of copy, that are regulated
by this division or by Chapter I of the LAMC.  Where signs are illuminated by
electric lighting, an electrical permit shall also be obtained as required by
the Electrical Code.	EXCEPTION:  The following signs are exempt from the
requirements to obtain a permit before erection:	a.	Signs not exceeding 20
square feet in area, placed upon the surface of the ground, no part of which
extends more than six feet six inches above the underlying ground, which have no
mechanical or moving parts or to which no electricity or other source of
illumination or power are attached to or made a part of the sign.  Signs that
fit within this category shall be separated from each other a minimum distance
of 15 feet.	b.	Boards and signs used exclusively to display official notices
issued by any court or public officer in the performance of a public duty or by
a private person in giving legal notice.	c.	Temporary signs containing
political, ideological, or other noncommercial messages. 	2.	Prior to the
issuance of a building permit(s) for temporary signs on temporary construction
walls, and/or solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots pursuant to Section
14.4.17 of this Code, the applicant shall post with the Department of Building
and Safety a bond in the amount of $10,000.00, guaranteeing compliance with all
conditions of the permit and the provisions of this ordinance.  The applicant
may post a surety bond, cash bond or negotiable United States Treasury
Certificates of the kind approved by law for securing deposits of public money
in accordance with the provisions of Section 91.8305, et seq., of this Code. 
Only one bond shall be required of each applicant regardless of the number of
locations for which the applicant has requested a building permit for a
temporary sign on temporary construction fences or fences surrounding vacant
lots.	For purposes of this subsection, the term “applicant” shall mean the
owner of the sign company or, if there is no sign company, the owner of the
property.	3.	The Department may revoke any sign permit as provided in LAMC
Section 98.0601(a).91.6201.3. Sign Permit Priority Status.	1.	To maintain
location, area, frontage, or spacing status, signs must be installed within six
months of issuance of a building permit or prior to expiration of any permit
extension granted by the Department.	2.	Where more than one permit has been
issued and the effect of those permits when considered together results in a
violation of this division, all permits except the permit with the earlier date
and time of issuance shall be invalid.91.6201.4. Violations.  It shall be
unlawful for any person to erect, construct, install, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, remove, convert, demolish, use or maintain any sign or sign support
structure or cause or permit those actions to be done, in violation of any of
the provisions of this division.	Any person who violates or causes or permits
another person to violate any of the provisions of this division is guilty of a
misdemeanor.91.6201.5. Penalties.  Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under
the provisions of this division shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
$1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not more than
six months, or by both fine and imprisonment.  Each violation of the provisions
of this division and each day during which a violation is committed or continues
is a separate offense.	Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
division may be required to pay restitution to the City of Los Angeles for all
costs expended to investigate and/or enforce the provisions of this
division.91.6201.6. Modifications.91.6201.6.1. Authority.  In addition to its
authority to grant slight modifications pursuant to LAMC Section 98.0403.1, the
Board shall have the authority to grant significant modifications from these
sign regulations.91.6201.6.2. Basis.  Before granting a significant
modification, the Board must find (1) that a special, individual reason makes
the strict letter of the ordinance impractical and (2) that the requested
modification is in conformity with the spirit and purposes of the objectives set
forth in Section 91.6201.6.6 of this Code.91.6201.6.3. Procedure.91.6201.6.3.1.
Requests for modifications in individual cases shall be made in accordance with
the procedure established in LAMC Section 98.0403.1.91.6201.6.3.2. The
Department shall determine whether an application is for a slight modification
or a significant modification.  The Department’s determination that a
proposed modification is significant shall be final and may not be appealed to
the Board.91.6201.6.3.3. An application for a request for significant
modification shall be made to the Board.  The applicant, in his or her request,
shall state the special, individual reason that makes compliance with the strict
letter of the provisions in question impractical and shall show that the
modification requested is in conformity with the spirit and purpose of this
division.	On the date of receipt of filing of the application, the file of the
Department shall be forwarded to the Board.  Upon receipt of the application,
the Board shall set the matter for hearing and give notice by mail not less than
ten days before the hearing of the time, place and purpose of the hearing to the
applicant, to the owners of the property involved, and to the owners of all
property within or outside of the City that is within a 300-foot radius of the
property on which the sign is to be placed as shown on the records of the City
Engineer, or in the case of property outside the City, the records of the County
Assessor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)91.6201.6.4. Board
Referral.  The Board may refer a request for a significant modification to the
Sign Advisory Committee (Section 91.105.4 of this Code) for evaluation and
recommendation before it renders a decision.91.6201.6.5. Fees.  Processing fees
for significant modifications are the same as those set forth for appeals to the
Board in LAMC Section 98.0403.1.  Significant modifications may also be subject
to the fees set forth in Section 91.105.4 of this Code and LAMC Section
19.05.91.6201.6.6. Purpose.  The purpose of this division is to promote public
safety and welfare by regulating signs in keeping with the following objectives:
 	1.	That the design, construction, installation, repair and maintenance of
signs will not interfere with traffic safety or otherwise endanger public
safety; and	2.	That both the public and sign users will benefit from signs
having improved legibility, readability and visibility.
