                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SHOWER AND LOCKER FACILITIES. (§ 91.6307)

  SHOWER AND LOCKER FACILITIES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)91.6307.1.  Shower and
Locker Facilities for Office Commercial, Business and Professional Uses.  For
office commercial, business and professional uses in the C and M zones, and for
buildings owned by the City of Los Angeles and used by the City for government
purposes, regardless of zone, shower facilities shall be available and
accessible for all employees in new buildings and in existing buildings, when
additions are made thereto, as follows:	1.	For new buildings and additions to
existing building with at least 50,000 square feet (4645 m2) of floor area, one
shower for each gender;	2.	For new buildings and additions to existing buildings
with 150,000 square feet (13 935 m2) to less than 250,000 square feet (23 225
m2) of floor area, two showers for each gender.	3.	For new buildings and
additions to existing buildings with 250,000 square feet (23 225 m2) of floor
area or more, one additional shower for each gender for each increment of
100,000 square feet (9290 m2) of floor area or portion thereof.	For the uses
specified above, where bicycle parking spaces are required pursuant to Section
12.21-A16 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, one locker facility shall be
provided for each required bicycle parking space.  Locker facilities required
by this section shall be located to permit access by either gender.91.6307.2. 
Shower and Locker Facilities for Industrial  Uses.  For industrial uses in the
C and M zones, shower facilities shall be available and accessible for all
employees in new buildings and in existing buildings, when additions are made
thereto, as follows:	For new buildings and additions to existing building with
50,000 square feet (4645 m2) of floor area and greater, one shower for each
gender.	For the uses specified above, where bicycle parking spaces are required
pursuant to Section 12.21-A16 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, one locker
facility shall be provided for each required bicycle parking space.  Locker
facilities required by this section shall be located to permit access by either
gender.91.6307.3.  Shower and Locker Facilities for Retail and Other Commercial
Uses.  For retail and other commercial uses in the C and M zones not specified
herein, employee shower facilities shall be available and accessible for all
employees in new buildings and in existing buildings, when additions are made
thereto, as follows:	1.	For new buildings and additions to existing building
with at least 100,000 square feet (9290 m2) to less than 300,000 square feet (27
870 m2) of floor area, one shower for each gender;	2.	For new buildings and
additions to existing buildings with 300,000 square feet (27 870 m2) of floor
area or greater, one additional shower for each gender for each additional
increment of 200,000 square feet (18 580 m2) of floor area or portion
thereof.	For the uses specified above, where bicycle parking spaces are required
pursuant to Section 12.21-A16 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, one locker
facility shall be provided for each required bicycle parking space.  Locker
facilities required by this section shall be located to permit access by either
gender.
