                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

IMPACT HAZARD GLAZING IN EXISTING BUILDINGS. (§ 91.6101)

  IMPACT HAZARD GLAZING IN EXISTING BUILDINGS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)91.6101.1. Impact Hazard Glazing in Existing Buildings.  When
application is made for a permit for alterations, repairs or additions to real
property, the permit shall be withheld until the department receives a sworn
affidavit from the real property owner stating that:	1.	Prior to final
inspection of the work under the permit, the owner shall replace the glass in
every existing sliding glass panel of sliding-type doors, other than wardrobe
doors and bathroom shower doors and French-type wooden doors, in the residential
portion of the building with approved safety glazing pursuant to CBC Section
2406; or	2.	The owner declares the existing glazing of the glass in every
sliding glass panel of sliding-type doors, other than wardrobe doors and
bathroom shower doors and French-type wooden doors, in the residential portion
of the building complies with the safety glazing requirements pursuant to CBC
Section 2406.	EXCEPTION:  The owner may install film on the glass in every
existing sliding glass panel of sliding-type doors, other than wardrobe doors
and bathroom shower doors and French-type wooden doors, in the residential
portion of the building with film approved by the department.91.6101.2.
Application.  The provisions of this section shall apply only in the following
circumstances:	1.	To Group R-3 Occupancy, if a permit is issued with a valuation
of $10,000 or more per unit for alterations, repairs or additions;	2.	To Group
R-1, R-2, R-3.1 or R-4 Occupancy, if a permit is issued for $3,000 or more per
dwelling unit and/or guest room for alterations, repairs or additions;	3.	To an
individual unit of Group R-1, R-2, R-3.1 or R-4 Occupancy, townhouse or
condominium, if a permit is issued for $10,000 or more for alterations, repairs
or additions to that individual unit; and	4.	To any Group R Occupancy that is
sold or exchanged, including an individual townhouse or condominium unit.
