                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SEPARATION FROM OIL WELLS. (§ 91.6105)

  SEPARATION FROM OIL WELLS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	No school, hospital, sanitarium or
assembly occupancy shall be within 200 feet from the center of the oil well
casing.	No public utility fuel manufacturing plant or public utility electrical
generating, receiving or distribution plant shall be located within 200 feet
from the center of the oil well casing. 	No building more than 400 square feet
(37 m2) in area and taller than 36 feet in height shall be erected within 50
feet from the center of an oil well casing.	A distance separation between the
exterior wall of the building and the center of an oil well casing shall be
maintained with a horizontal distance equal to 1½ times the building’s
height, provided however, that that distance need not exceed 200 feet. The
building height for this provision shall be measured vertically from the
adjacent lowest ground elevation to the ceiling of the top story.	EXCEPTIONS: 
The distance separation may be reduced to the following:	1.	35 feet separation
if a solid 6 inches thick masonry wall and no shorter than 6 feet tall to be
constructed within 50 feet from the building in between the oil well and all
portions of the building. 	2.	26 feet if any portion of the building exterior
walls within 50 feet from the center of an oil well casing shall be constructed
with no openings and one hour fire resistive construction with a 3 foot high
fire rated parapet. 	3.	15 feet if any portion of the building exterior walls
within 50 feet from the center of an oil well casing shall be constructed with
no openings and two-hour fire resistive construction with a 3 foot high fire
rated parapet.
