                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION. (§ 91.6205)

  DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.91.6205.1. General Requirements.  Signs shall be
designed and constructed to comply with the provisions of this Code for use of
materials, loads and stresses.  Glass panels used in signs shall comply with
the size, thickness and type of glass as shown in Table 4-A of Appendix H of the
CBC.  The use, location, size, area and height of the sign shall comply with
the provisions of this Code and Chapter I of the LAMC, whichever is more
restrictive.  Table 4-A of Appendix H of the CBC is adopted by
reference.91.6205.2. Section H105.2 of Appendix H of the CBC is adopted by
reference.91.6205.3. Section H105.3 of Appendix H of the CBC is adopted by
reference.91.6205.4. Section H105.4 of Appendix H of the CBC is adopted by
reference.91.6205.5. Section H105.5 of Appendix H of the CBC is adopted by
reference.91.6205.6.Section H105.6 of Appendix H of the CBC is adopted by
reference.91.6205.18. Off-Site Sign Periodic Inspection Program.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 180,446, Eff. 12/26/08.)91.6205.18.1. General.  All off-site sign
structures as defined in Section 14.4.2 of the LAMC and subject to the
provisions of Chapter I of the LAMC, are subject to regular inspection. 
Inspection shall occur once in the initial three year period starting on
February 1, 2009 and subsequent inspections shall be conducted in three year
intervals by the Superintendent or an authorized representative.  Inspections
may also be complaint-based.91.6205.18.2. Fees for Inspection.  This fee shall
be known as the “Off-Site Sign Periodic Inspection Fee”.  The person in
control of an off-site sign structure subject to inspection shall pay a
regulatory fee of $186.00 to the Department and provide a copy of a valid permit
issued by the City of Los Angeles for each off-site sign structure or, a copy of
a valid permit issued by the appropriate jurisdiction if the lot was annexed to
the City of Los Angeles.  The person in control of an off-site sign structure
shall pay a regulatory fee of $342.00 if valid permits are not provided.	The
regulatory fee shall be due on February 1 every three years starting on February
1, 2009.  If the fees are not paid on or before the last day of the month in
which they are due, a monthly penalty equal to five percent of any outstanding
fees, but not less than $10.00, shall be added to those fees each month until
the outstanding fees are paid.  Should the person in control fail to pay the
required fee, the City of Los Angeles will recover it, plus accrued penalties,
utilizing any remedies provided by law.	The Department shall cause all money
collected pursuant to this section to be deposited into the Off-Site Sign
Periodic Inspection Fee Trust Fund described in Section 5.111.17 of the Los
Angeles Administrative Code for purposes of disbursement as that section
permits.  The Department of Building and Safety shall report to the City
Council on the actual costs of the regulatory program at the end of each three
year cycle no later than June 30 of the third year.	The regulatory fee shall be
used to finance the costs of administering the inspection program, including but
not limited to, inspection, issuance of inspection certificates and maintenance
of an off-site sign structure database.  Payment of the fee shall not create a
presumption that the sign is lawfully erected, as that term is defined in
Section 91.6205.18.7 of this division.91.6205.18.3. Inspection Certificate. 
The Department shall issue a certificate of compliance when appropriate fees
have been paid, inspections have been conducted and the off-site sign structure
has been determined to be in compliance the terms of the permit described in
Sec. 91.6205.18.2 of this division and with all applicable regulations at the
time the permit was issued.  A new certificate of compliance shall be issued
every three years for each off-site sign structure following each subsequent
inspection conducted pursuant to this program provided the off-site sign
structure remains in compliance.	The certificates shall be attached to the
exterior surface of the off-site sign structure in a location that will be
visible from ground level.91.6205.18.4. Frequency of Inspection.  Each off-site
sign structure shall be inspected once every three years.91.6205.18.5. Off-Site
Sign Inventory.  The Department shall maintain a database containing the
following information on all off-site sign structures subject to inspection
pursuant to Section 91.6205.18 of this division.  The database shall contain:
building permit number, size of sign as shown on the building permit, issuance
date, any subsequent building permits issued for that sign, and any information
required pursuant to this chapter or obtained pursuant to
inspection.91.6205.18.6. Orders.  If, upon inspection, the Superintendent or an
authorized representative observes one or more violations of the LAMC, the
Superintendent shall issue an Order to Comply.  The person in control of the
sign shall eliminate all violations by the compliance date stated on the Order
to Comply.91.6205.18.7. Violations.  If the Department determines that an
off-site sign structure was not lawfully erected, then the off-site sign
structure shall have its sign face removed and replaced with blank panels until
the off-site sign structure is made to comply with the applicable provisions of
the LAMC.  The term “lawfully erected” means an off-site sign structure
that was erected in compliance with the provisions of the LAMC in effect at the
time of its erection or which was subsequently brought into full compliance with
the provisions of the LAMC, except that the term does not apply to any off-site
sign structure whose use was modified after erection in a manner that caused it
to become illegal.
