                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 91.6705)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)	For the purpose of this division,
certain terms are defined as follows:	CYLINDER GUARD.  A ring surrounding the
exposed portion of the lock cylinder, or any other device, which is so fastened
as to protect the cylinder from wrenching, prying, cutting, or pulling by attack
tools.  The ring shall be made from steel or brass and shall have a minimum
taper of 15 degrees.	DEADLOCKING LATCH.  A latch in which the latch bolt is
positively held in the projected position by a guard bolt, a plunger or an
auxiliary mechanism.	DEADBOLT.  A bolt which has no automatic spring action and
which is operated by a key cylinder, thumb-turn, or lever, and is held fast when
in the projected position.	ENCLOSING PARTITION.  A partition extending the full
height of the story to the floor or roof above separating tenant
spaces.	LATCH.  A device for automatically retaining a door, upon its closing,
in a closed position.	SECURITY OPENING.  An opening in a wall, partition, or
roof when such opening occurs in any of the following locations:	1.	In an
exterior wall and less than 16 feet above the grade of any adjoining yard,
court, passageway, public way, walk, breezeway, patio, planter porch or similar
area.	2.	In an exterior wall and less than 16 feet above the surface of any
adjoining roof, balcony, landing, stair tread, platform, or similar structure
when that surface is accessible to the public or another tenant or when any
portion of such surface is itself less than 16 feet above an accessible
grade.	3.	In the enclosing partitions of a dwelling unit, private garage, guest
room or single-tenant non-residential area.	4.	In a roof when any portion of
such roof is less than 16 feet above an accessible grade or surface accessible
by another tenant or the public.
