                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. (§ 91.7203)

  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.91.7203.1 General.  In addition to the general
requirements of this code every building located in a fire district shall
conform to the requirements of this division.91.7203.2.  Nonconforming
Buildings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.) 
Alterations and repairs to a nonconforming building in a fire district shall
conform to the provisions of Divisions 81 and 86 of this Code.	The provisions of
this subsection are subject to the roofing requirements of C.B.C. Section
1503.91.7203.3.  Construction Sheds and Canopies.  Construction sheds and
protection canopies may be erected in a fire district if there is compliance
with the other provisions of this code.91.7203.4.  Projections from
Buildings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.) 
Projections from buildings conforming to the regulations of Division 32 of this
Code may be constructed in any fire district.91.7203.5.  Sprinklers.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  In every building in Fire
District No. 1, every story or basement with a floor surface elevation more than
four feet lower than the highest elevation of the floor landing or tread of any
required exit from that story shall be sprinklered.	EXCEPTION:  Sprinklers need
not be installed in locations expressly excepted in Article 4, Chapter IX of the
LAMC (Plumbing Code), provided other approved fire-protection equipment is
installed.
91.7203.6.  Miscellaneous Structures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff.
12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  In Fire District No. 1, isolated structures
constructed of noncombustible materials may be unprotected if used for other
than human occupancy.	Loading platforms having no roof and not over 48 inches
above the ground may be of wood.	Loading platforms shall be enclosed and shall
be firestopped into areas not exceeding 2,500 square feet.
