                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. (§ 91.7005)

  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.7005.1. 
Hillside Areas.  No person shall conduct any grading operation for other than
building site development in hillside areas.	EXCEPTION:  Grading which is not
connected with building site development may be conducted in hillside areas when
the Department finds that such work enhances the physical stabilization of
property, or is not detrimental to public health, safety or welfare, and is in
conformity with the approved master plan for the area.  A tentative tract or
division of land map shall also not be required for such exempt
grading.91.7005.2.  Building Foundations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff.
8/8/11.)  Building foundations and temporary shoring shall be designed and
constructed as specified in Division 18 and Division 33 of this Code.
 91.7005.3.  Removal of Ground Cover. (Amended by Ord. No. Ord. No. 181,758,
Eff. 8/8/11.)  The existing vegetative ground cover of any watershed in any
hillside area shall not be destroyed, removed or damaged except pursuant to
lawful grading, use or occupancy of the property.  Except for California native
oak, bay, black walnut and sycamore trees regulated by the provisions of Article
7 of Chapter I or Article 6 of Chapter IV of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
removal of trees and shrubbery will be allowed where such work will not disturb
the turf, sod or other existing vegetative ground cover.  Whenever such ground
cover is removed or damaged pursuant to a grading permit, the permittee shall
restore and maintain approved ground cover, or shall accomplish such other
erosion control protection as is required.  Such erosion control shall be
completed within 30 days after cessation of the grading work where no valid
building permit is in effect for the site.91.7005.4.  Exceptions for
Emergencies.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  The provisions of
this Code shall be temporarily waived for any grading operation which is
conducted during a period of emergency disaster and which is directly connected
with or related to relief of conditions caused by such emergency or disaster. 
This emergency exception shall not be construed to waive compliance with the
provisions of this Code subsequent to the emergency or disaster.91.7005.5. 
Cemetery Interment Sites.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.) 
Cemetery interment sites shall not be located on slopes steeper than one unit
vertical in three units horizontal (33.3% slope), provided further, where
interment sites are located adjacent to slopes steeper than one unit vertical in
two units horizontal (50% slope), the site shall not be located closer to the
face of such slopes than a one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50% slope)
imaginary plane projected up from the toe of the slope.	EXCEPTION: 
Encroachment of the interment sites beyond the imaginary plane may be permitted,
provided it can be shown to the Department’s satisfaction through
investigation and report by both a soils engineer and an engineering geologist
that the underlying bedrock and the materials on the slope have strength
characteristics sufficient to provide a stable soil with a minimum factor of
safety of not less than 1.5 static loads.	No permit shall be required for
preparing an area for planting of lawn or landscaping in a cemetery, provided
the resulting maximum slope of one unit vertical in three units horizontal
(33.3% slope) is maintained and there is no change to the existing drainage
pattern.	The Department may waive or reduce the requirements of Sections 91.7012
and 91.7013 of this Code for planting, irrigation, erosion control and drainage
devices for portions of a cemetery graded or to be graded with a maximum slope
of one unit vertical in three units horizontal (33.3% slope) if the applicant
shows to the Department’s satisfaction that slope erosion and drainage will be
controlled entirely within the boundaries of the property which is dedicated,
used or to be used for cemetery purposes.91.7005.6.  Maintenance of Protective
Devices.  The owner of any property on which an excavation or fill has been
made pursuant to a permit granted under Division 1 of this Code, or any other
person or agent in control of such property, shall maintain in good condition
and repair all retaining walls, cribbing, drainage structures and other
protective devices, on said property, as shown on the approved plans and
specifications submitted with the application for a permit.91.7005.7. 
Hazardous Soil and Earth Conditions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff.
4/15/98.)  Whenever the Department determines by inspection that any land or
any existing excavation or fills have, from any cause, become a menace to life
or limb, or endangers public or private property, or affects the safety,
usability or stability of public or private property, the owner or other person
in legal control of the property concerned shall, upon receipt of a written
notice thereof from the Department, correct such condition in accordance with
the provisions of this division and the requirements and conditions set forth in
the notice so as to eliminate the hazardous condition.  The owner or other
person in legal control of the property shall immediately comply with the
provisions set forth in the notice and shall complete the work within 180 days
from the date of the notice unless a shorter period of time for completion has
been specified in the notice in which case the owner shall comply with the
shorter period of time.  Upon written application therefor, the Department may
approve the request for an extension of time to complete the work required by
notice.	If the above condition is not eliminated within the specified time
period, the Department shall file with the Office of the County Recorder a
certificate stating that the property is substandard and that the owner thereof
has been so notified.  The certificate shall specify the conditions creating
the substandard classification.	When the above conditions have been corrected to
the Department’s satisfaction, upon receiving a $60 fee from the owner or his
or her agent, the Department shall file with the Office of the County Recorder a
certificate specifying that the conditions creating the substandard
classification have been corrected and that the property is no longer considered
substandard.91.7005.8.  Violations.91.7005.8.1.  General.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  No person shall fail, refuse or neglect to comply
with the following provisions:	1.	All orders issued by the Department pursuant
to the provisions of this division;	2.	All conditions imposed on grading permits
pursuant to the provisions of this division; and	3.	All rules and regulations of
the Department with respect to grading which are in effect at the time the
grading permit is issued.	Any person violating the above shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.91.7005.8.2.  Noncompliance Fee.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939,
Eff. 4/15/98.)  See Section 98.0411 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.91.7005.8.3.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)91.7005.9. 
Nonconforming Sites.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  All
additions to existing buildings shall conform to the provisions of this
Code.	Whenever the principal building on a site is added to, altered or repaired
in excess of 50 percent of its replacement value, the entire site shall be made
to conform with the provisions of this division and Division 18.
