                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TESTING, MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE OF GAS-DETECTION AND MECHANICAL VENTILATION
SYSTEMS. (§ 91.7106)

  TESTING, MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE OF GAS-DETECTION AND MECHANICAL VENTILATION
SYSTEMS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	The installation instructions for
the gas detection and mechanical ventilation systems, which are required by
Table 71, shall be approved and enforced by the Fire Department.  All gas
detection and mechanical ventilation systems shall be maintained and serviced in
proper working condition and meet all requirements of the Electrical and
Mechanical Code.  	A.	Fire Department.  The Fire Department shall enforce the
following:	1.	The maintenance and service procedures for each gas detection and
mechanical ventilation systems, which are required in Table 71, shall be
performed by the building owner in accordance with the manufacturers written
instructions.	2.	The annual and maintenance testing shall be performed as set
forth by the Fire Department in accordance with the Fire Prevention Bureau
(F.P.B.) Requirement No. 71 and Fire Chief’s Regulation 4, Section 4J.	3.	The
testing of the gas detection and mechanical ventilation systems shall be
performed by a person with a valid Certificate of Fitness for Gas Detection
Systems as set forth in Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
57.06.01.	B.	Notification Placard.  A permanent notification placard shall be
posted and maintained at the front entrance of a building that is constructed
with Impervious Membrane, except in residential buildings. The placard shall
indicate the presence of the Impervious Membrane.
