                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FIRE DISTRICT NUMBER 1. (§ 91.7204)

  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FIRE DISTRICT NUMBER 1.
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)91.7204.1.  Types of
Construction Permitted.  Every building in Fire District No. 1 shall be one of
the following types:	Type I; Type II; Type III; or provisional structures as
provided in Section 91.7205 of this Code.91.7204.2.  Type IIB Buildings. 
Every building of Type IIB construction in Fire District No. 1, except
provisional structures allowed by this section, shall have at least two- hour
fire-resistive construction for exterior walls within ten feet of and facing a
property line and shall have at least one- hour fire-resistive construction for
exterior walls facing a property line and less than 30 feet distance from the
property line.	EXCEPTION:  These walls may be one-hour less fire-resistive than
specified here if the building is not more than one story in height or more than
2500 square feet in area.91.7204.3.  Openings in Exterior Walls.  In the
following cases, all openings in the exterior walls of buildings in Fire
District No. 1, other than provisional structures, shall be protected by a fire
assembly having a three-fourths-hour fire-resistive rating when the exterior
wall is within ten feet of a fire separation distance.91.7204.4.  Roof
covering.  Section D102.2.4 of Appendix D of the CBC is adopted by
reference.91.7204.5.  Structural fire rating.  Walls, floors, roofs and their
supporting structural members shall be a minimum of one-hour
fire-resistance-rated constructions.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Buildings equipped
throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with CBC Section
903.3.1.1.	2.	Automobile parking structures.	3.	Buildings surrounded on all
sides by a permanently open space of not less than 30 feet (9144
mm).	4.	Partitions complying with CBC Section 603.1(8).91.7204.6.  Exterior
Walls.  Section D102.2.6 of Appendix D of the CBC is adopted by
reference.91.7204.7.  Architectural Trim.  Section D102.2.7 of Appendix D of
the CBC is adopted by reference.91.7204.8.  Permanent Canopies.  Section
D102.2.8 of Appendix D of the CBC is adopted by reference.91.7204.9.  Roof
Structures.  Section D102.2.9 of Appendix D of the CBC is adopted by
reference.91.7204.10.  Plastic signs.  Section D102.2.10 of Appendix D of the
CBC is adopted by reference.91.7204.11.  Plastic veneer.  Section D102.2.11 of
Appendix D of the CBC is adopted by reference.
