                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EROSION CONTROL AND DRAINAGE DEVICES. (§ 91.7013)

  EROSION CONTROL AND DRAINAGE DEVICES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.7013.1.  Interceptor Terraces. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  Paved interceptor terraces shall
have a minimum width of eight feet (2438 mm) and shall be installed on the face
of all cut and fill slopes at intervals not to exceed 25 feet (7620 mm) measured
along a vertical plane.  Where only one terrace is required, it shall be at
mid-height.	The cross section of interceptor terraces shall meet the
specification shown in Figure A.	The longitudinal slope of interceptor terraces
shall not be less than five percent or more than 12 percent and any change in
rate of grade within these allowable slopes shall increase the grade in the
direction of flow.	A single run of an interceptor terrace shall not exceed 150
feet (45 720 mm) to a down drain. Down drain shall be embedded round pipes
enclosed in concrete shaped as shown in Section C-C of Figure G, or an alternate
design which is prepared by a civil engineer and acceptable to the
Department.91.7013.2.  Diverter Terraces.  Paved diverter terraces,
constructed as shown in Figure B, shall be installed at the top of all graded
slopes where the tributary drainage area above has a slope exceeding one unit
vertical in 10 units horizontal (10% slope) and a horizontal projection of
greater than 40 feet (12 192 mm).  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff.
5/12/09.)91.7013.3.  Berms.  Berms conforming to the provisions of Figure C
shall be constructed at the top of all slopes.91.7013.4.  Vee Channels. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  Where a slough wall is required
at the toe of the slope by other provisions of this Code, or a retaining wall is
built to support any cut or fill slope, a vee channel shall be constructed
behind the wall to carry off the slope waters to interceptors, down drains or
other approved drainage devices.91.7013.5  Inlet Structures, Down Drains and
Outlet Structures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)91.7013.5.1. 
Inlet Structures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  Inlet
structures shall be of concrete, galvanized iron hot dipped in asphalt or
equivalent.  The inlet structure shall be grated or grilled, or of such entry
shape as to prevent entry of objects of greater than four inches (102 mm) in
dimension.  The inlet structure shall be placed on the bench as shown in
Section Y-Y of Figure G and shall be so shaped as to provide small entry
losses.  An overflow structure into the vee down drains shall be
provided.91.7013.5.2.  Down Drains.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff.
4/15/98.)  Down drains shall have paved inverts and shall be of concrete,
minimum 18 gauge corrugated galvanized iron hot dipped in asphalt, or corrugated
alloy 3004-H-34 aluminum of minimum 16 gauge and hot dipped in asphalt or
equivalent.  Pipe down drains shall conform with Section C-C of Figure G and
shall have a diameter of a size required by runoff calculations, but no less
than 12 inches (305 mm).	Open channel down drains shall be designed by a civil
engineer and shall have a minimum capacity equal to four times the required pipe
size.  The alignment of down drains shall be such as to conserve velocity
head.91.7013.5.3.  Outlet Structures.  Outlet structures shall be of concrete,
galvanized iron hot dipped in asphalt or equivalent.	Where outletting into
street or other approved termination areas, the structure shall be of a design
approved by the Department of Public Works.  Where outletting into natural
watercourses or other approved locations, the structure shall be provided with
adequate velocity reducers, diversion walls, rip-rap, concrete aprons or any
similar energy dissipator.  All slope drainage shall be collected and disposed
of in the drainage device.91.7013.6.  Runoff Computations.  Runoff shall be
based on the proper 50-year isohyetal, and the runoff calculation shall be based
on the latest methods adopted by the Bureau of Engineering.91.7013.7.  Drainage
Dispersal Wall.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  A drainage
dispersal wall shall be constructed as set forth in Figure F whenever it is
necessary to convert channel flow to sheet flow.91.7013.8.  Subdrains. 
Subdrains shall be laid under all fills placed in natural watercourses. 
Subdrains shall be placed along the watercourse flow line and along the flow
line of any branches tributary thereto.  Additional subdrains shall be
installed to collect any active or potential springs or seeps which will be
covered by the fill.  Subdrains shall be installed after the watercourse has
been excavated to firm material in preparation for receiving the fill. 
Individual design shall be shown on each plan for city approval, based on
recommendations of the soils engineer and geologist to the satisfaction of the
Department.91.7013.9.  Gutters.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07,
Oper. 1/1/08.)  Eave or ground gutters shall be provided to receive all roof
water and deliver it through a non erosive device via gravity to a street or
watercourse, or approved drainage facility, if the slope of the underlying
natural ground exceeds three percent or if more than three feet (914 mm) of
compacted fill or more than one foot (305 mm) of uncompacted fill is placed on
the ground.91.7013.10.  Site Drainage.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff.
12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  All pads with cut or fill shall slope a minimum of
two percent to an approved drainage device or facility, or to a public street. 
Where used, the drainage device shall be an adequately designed system of catch
basins and drain lines, which conducts the water to a street.	EXCEPTION:  Where
the slope of the underlying natural ground does not exceed three percent and the
compacted fill is less than three feet (914 mm) in depth, the slope of the pad
may be reduced to one percent.91.7013.11.  Drainage Around Buildings. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  On all building sites, acceptable
drainage devices shall be installed to conduct storm water around buildings
whenever the distance from the building to the top of any slope is less than
five feet (1524 mm).  Where used, the drainage device shall be an adequately
designed system of catch basins and drain lines which conducts the water to a
street.91.7013.12.  Maintenance of Drainage.  Drainage in conformance with the
provisions of this Code shall be maintained during and subsequent to
construction.
