                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS. (§ 91.7014)

  CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.7014.1.  Construction, General. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  No structure shall be constructed
upon a slope steeper than one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50%
slope).  For building location and setback requirements, see Division
18.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Subject to approval by the Department, construction may be
placed upon slopes steeper than one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50%
slope), provided reports from a soils engineer and engineering geologist
recommend favorably toward construction.  The reports shall include adequate
information and analysis to show to the Department’s satisfaction that the
underlying bedrock and natural soils and slope surface materials have strength
characteristics sufficient to produce a stable slope with a factor of safety of
not less than 1.5 for static loads.  The reports shall incorporate provisions
for downhill creep in the design of footings where applicable.	2.	Where a minor
amount of the structure is constructed on the slope or where the construction
consists of an unroofed deck, the Department may approve the construction
without engineering and geological reports.91.7014.2.  Slough Wall.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  If potential sloughing
hazards affecting buildings or structures are present on natural, cut or fill
slopes in excess of 20 feet (6096 mm) in vertical height, slough protection
devices may be required by the Department.91.7014.3.  Flood and Mudflow
Protection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.) 
Flood and mudflow protection shall be provided for all new buildings, additions
to buildings and substantial improvements to buildings, which are located on
sites determined by the Department to be subject to those conditions, in
accordance with Ordinance No. 163,913.	The recommendations for mudflow
protection shall be contained in a site investigation report made by persons
qualified and licensed in civil engineering, engineering geology and/or soils
engineering to ascertain the location, magnitude and extent of potential mudflow
hazards and to recommend measures for protection or the elimination of those
hazards.  The use of the minimum design parameters specified in this Code shall
be justified in the report.	Minimum design parameters to be used for mud/debris
flow control systems within and at the base of concentration drainage areas
are:	1.	A channel flow capacity of ten cubic feet per second (0.28 m3/s) per
acre (ha) of tributary drainage area; or	2.	A temporary storage capacity of 400
cubic yards (306 m3) per acre (ha) of tributary drainage area.
