                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HISTORICAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES. (§ 91.8119)

  HISTORICAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this Code to the contrary, the following provisions shall
apply in addition to the provisions of Title 24, Part 8 of the California Code
of Regulations, the State Historical Building Code.91.8119.1.  Additions,
Alterations and Repairs.  Additions, alterations and repairs shall be made in
accordance with the nonconforming rights of Sections 91.8101.2, 91.8103 and
91.8107.91.8119.2.  Change of Use or Occupancy.  Change of use or occupancy
shall comply with Sections 91.8203 and 91.8204 of this Code.91.8119.3. 
Earthquake Hazard Buildings.  Where the requirements of Division 88 of this
Code are more restrictive than the requirements of this division, the
requirements of Division 88 of the Code shall apply.91.8119.4.  Preservation of
Historical Buildings.91.8119.4.1.  If the Department determines that any
building, structure, premises or portion thereof, (1) has been designated an
historical monument or (2) is being considered as a historical monument by the
Cultural Heritage Commission, and (3) is subject to vandalism, or unlawful
entry, or has become a hazardous building, nuisance or substandard building,
then the Department may cause the building, structure, or premises or any
portion thereof, to be immediately barricaded and protected by such means as the
Department may deem advisable, including the use of a Department awarded
contract.91.8119.4.2.  The Department may cause the building, structure or
premises, or any portion of the building, structure or premises, to be
immediately barricaded or protected from further deterioration.  The
barricading or protection may be accomplished by any City department with the
forces to perform the work, upon receipt of a request from the Department, or by
any forces under contract to the City. Where the work is accomplished by other
than City forces, the cost shall be paid from the “Repair and Demolition
Fund” as established in Section 91.8906.  All costs incurred pursuant to this
section shall be a personal obligation against the owner of the property upon
which the particular building or structure or any portion is located,
recoverable by the City in an action before any court of competent
jurisdiction.  These costs shall include an amount equal to 40 percent of the
cost to perform the actual work, but not less than the sum of $100.00, to cover
the City’s costs for administering any contract and supervising the work
required.  In addition to this personal obligation and all other remedies
provided by law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge,
including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in
relation to the provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.  (Amended by Ord. No.
175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)91.8119.4.3.  The administrative fee of 40 percent of
the costs shall not be included in the calculation of costs incurred for or
arising out of any barricading, or protecting, resulting from an event or course
of events that prompted a declaration of a state of emergency, local emergency,
war emergency or major disaster by the Mayor, the Governor of the State, or by
the President of the United States.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff.
12/7/03.)91.8119.4.4.  If the Department determines that the building,
structure, or premises or portion thereof is not in danger of imminent
deterioration or vandalism, then the Department may, in lieu of the above,
require the building, structure or premises or any portion thereof to be
secured, repaired or protected pursuant to the provisions of Division 89 of this
Code.91.8119.5.  Vandalism of Historical Buildings.  The Department shall have
the authority to issue an Order to Comply to an owner of any building that has
been designated an historical monument or is being considered as an historical
monument by the Cultural Heritage Commission if the Department determines that
the building has become subject to vandalism or constitutes a public nuisance. 
In such circumstances, the Department shall have the authority to issue any
order it deems appropriate to keep the property from being further vandalized or
from becoming a public nuisance including, but not limited to, ordering that the
building be secured and fenced.	For the purposes of this provision, any building
which has been designated an historical monument or is being considered as an
historical monument by the Cultural Heritage Commission shall include the
interiors and exteriors of any accessory building located on an historic
site.91.8119.5.1.  Security measures that the Department may order shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:	1.	The installation of the
maximum allowed height under this Code of chain- link perimeter fencing with top
mounted horizontal pipe and razor wire, and at least one securely-locked
pedestrian gate and the posting of “NO TRESPASSING” signs, pursuant to
Section 41.24 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, at 25-foot intervals.	2.	Steel
or plywood closures, with one-inch diameter air holes, installed at all doors
and windows.  (Sandwich panel installation shall be used so as to avoid
drilling into window frames and sashes, doors, ornament or masonry
units.)	3.	The removal of all debris from the premises, including but not
limited to wood, paper, cans, bottles and fecal matter.	Any temporary
modifications required to be made to secure the building shall be
reversible.91.8119.5.2.  Any plans or proposals for work required to be
performed pursuant to an Order to Comply to secure any building from being
further vandalized or from becoming a public nuisance must first be reviewed by
the Cultural Affairs Department to ensure that any work done to secure the
building will not damage or alter the historic character of the building.  This
review by the Cultural Affairs Department must be completed within ten working
days from the date any request for review is submitted.  The Cultural Affairs
Department shall only disapprove a plan or proposal to secure a building if the
work will significantly damage or alter the historic character of the
building.  If the work to be performed includes substantial alteration, the
procedures set forth in Los Angeles Administrative Code Section 22.133 shall be
utilized for review by the Cultural Affairs Department.	Failure to act upon a
request for review within the time periods set forth herein shall constitute a
waiver by the Cultural Affairs Department of the right to review plans or
proposals for the work to be performed.  Work ordered to be performed
immediately pursuant to an Order to Comply, as determined by the Department of
Building and Safety, may be commenced and completed without prior review by the
Cultural Affairs Department.	Nothing herein shall be interpreted to prohibit an
owner from taking immediate temporary measures to secure a building from
unauthorized entry.91.8119.5.3.  It shall be unlawful for any property owner to
fail to comply with any Order to Comply issued by the Department under this
provision.91.8119.5.4.  Additional Remedies – Notice Of Intention.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)  In addition to the remedies provided by
this Code, should an owner fail to comply with an Order to Comply, the
Department may take the necessary measures, including those authorized under
Sections 91.8903, 91.8904, and 91.8905 of this Code, to immediately secure the
property against vandalism or prevent it from becoming a public nuisance. 
Prior to taking these measures, the Department shall send a Notice of Intention
to the owner pursuant to the provisions set forth in Sections 91.8903.3.3 and
91.8903.3.4 of this Code.	Except for measures taken pursuant to Section 91.8905
of this Code, when a Notice of Intention is issued under this section, the
provisions of Section 91.8903.3.5 through and including Section 91.8903.4.3
shall also apply.	This provision is in addition to the remedies provided in
Sections 91.8903, 91.8904, and 91.8905 of this Code.	All costs incurred pursuant
to this section shall be a personal obligation against the owner of the
property, recoverable by the City in an action before any court of competent
jurisdiction.  These costs shall include an amount equal to 40 percent of the
cost to perform the actual work, but not less than the sum of $100.00, to cover
the City’s costs for administering any contract and supervising the work
required.  In addition to this personal obligation and all other remedies
provided by law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge,
including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in
relation to the provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.
