                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DESIGN CHECK – COMPATIBILITY OF ROOF DIAPHRAGM STIFFNESS TO UNREINFORCED
MASONRY WALL OUT-OF-PLANE STABILITY. (§ 91.8811)

  DESIGN CHECK – COMPATIBILITY OF ROOF DIAPHRAGM STIFFNESS TO UNREINFORCED
MASONRY WALL OUT-OF-PLANE STABILITY.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8811.1.  General.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  The requirements of this section are in
addition to the requirements of Sections 91.8808 and 91.8809.  The relative
stiffness and strength of a diaphragm governs the amount of amplification of the
seismic ground motion by the diaphragm and, therefore, a diaphragm stiffness and
strength-related check of the out-of-plane stability of unreinforced masonry
walls anchored to wood diaphragms shall be made.  This section contains a
procedure for the evaluation of the out-of-plane stability of unreinforced
masonry walls anchored to wood diaphragms that are coupled to shear-resisting
elements.91.8811.2.  Requirements for Terms.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324,
Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The requirements for the terms used in this
Division shall be defined as follows:	CROSS WALL is a wood-framed wall having a
height-to-length ratio of:	1.	Two to one for wood structural panels.	2.	One to
one for gypsum board, gypsum lath, cement plaster or diagonal sheathing.	The
total strength of all cross walls located within any 40-foot (12 192 mm) length
of diaphragm measured in the direction of the diaphragm span shall not be less
than 30 percent of the strength of the diaphragm in the direction of
consideration.	DEMAND-CAPACITY RATIO (DCR) is a ratio of the
following:	1.	Demand = lateral forces due to 33 percent of the weight of the
diaphragm and the tributary weight of the walls and other elements anchored to
the diaphragm.	2.	Capacity = diaphragm total shear strength in the direction
under consideration as determined using the values in Table No. 88-K or Table
No. 88-L.91.8811.3.  Notations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff.
4/15/98.)	D	=	depth of diaphragm, in feet (mm), measured perpendicular to the
diaphragm span.	h/t	=	height-to-thickness ratio of an unreinforced masonry wall.
The height shall be measured between wall anchorage levels and the thickness
shall be measured through the wall cross section.	L	=	span of diaphragm between
masonry shear walls or steel frames.	Vc	=	total shear capacity of cross walls in
the direction of analysis immediately below the diaphragm level being
investigated as determined by using Tables Nos. 88-K and 88-L.	vu	=	maximum
shear strength in pounds per foot for a diaphragm sheathed with any of the
materials given in Tables Nos. 88-K and 88-L.	Wd	=	total dead load of the
diaphragm plus the tributary weight of the walls anchored to the diaphragm, the
tributary ceiling and partitions and the weight of any other permanent building
elements at the diaphragm level under investigation.91.8811.4.  Design Check
Procedure.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)91.8811.4.1.  General. 
The demand-capacity ratio (DCR) for the building under investigation shall be
calculated using the following equations:DCR = 0.33Wd /2vuD	(11-3)	orDCR =
0.33Wd /(2vuD + Vc)	(11-4)91.8811.4.2.  Diaphragm Deflection.  The calculated
DCR shall be to the left of the curve in Figure No. 88-A.  Where the calculated
DCR is outside (to the right of) the curve, the diaphragm deflection limits are
exceeded, and cross walls may be used to reduce the deflection.91.8811.4.3. 
Unreinforced Masonry Wall Out-of-Plane Stability.  The DCR shall be calculated
discounting any cross walls.  If the DCR corresponding to the diaphragm span is
to the right of the curve in Figure No. 88-A, the region within the curve at and
below the intersection of the diaphragm span with the curve may be used to
determine the allowable h/t values per Table No. 88-G.
