                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR LIGHT-HOUSEKEEPING ROOMS. (§ 91.8116)

  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR LIGHT-HOUSEKEEPING ROOMS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8116.1 General.  This division
does not prevent the use of a room as a light-housekeeping room in any building
which was erected prior to September 20, 1963, provided that such room fully
complies with the provisions of this subsection.	A light-housekeeping room is
any room which is designed and used both as a sleeping room and for the cooking
or preparation of food.91.8116.2.  Special Provisions.91.8116.2.1. 
Light-housekeeping rooms shall contain not less than 150 square feet in area and
shall be occupied by not more than two people.  The cooking appliance therein,
if any, shall be used solely for the cooking or preparation of meals for
consumption by the occupants of the room.	EXCEPTION:  A room having a
superficial floor area of not less than 120 square feet may be used for
light-housekeeping if it is occupied by only one person.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)91.8116.2.2.  The cooking appliances used therein, if
any, shall have no more than two burners.  If electric appliances are used,
they shall have been tested and approved by the Underwriters Laboratories.  If
gas appliances are used, they shall have been tested and approved by the
American Gas Association.91.8116.2.3.  The installation, maintenance or use of
said cooking appliance shall not be hazardous to life, health or
property.91.8116.2.4.1.  Said cooking appliance shall rest upon its own legs,
or shall be an approved, built-in unit of fixed installation.  Said appliance
shall be set not closer than six inches from any wall or projection thereof, and
shall rest upon an impervious surface.91.8116.2.4.2.  The walls behind and
adjacent to said cooking appliance shall be lined or back-flashed with
noncombustible material equivalent to 1/4–inch asbestos mill board.  The
back-flashing shall extend from 12 inches below to 24 inches above the base of
the appliance.  There shall be clear and unobstructed space of 36 inches above
the surface of the cooking appliance.	EXCEPTION:  Approved prefabricated
kitchen units.91.8116.2.5.1.  Gas-burning appliances shall be connected to the
gas supply piping by approved metal piping with an approved gas shutoff valve
readily accessible within the room, and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of the Plumbing Code.	Electrical appliances and serving circuits
shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the provisions of the
Electrical Code.91.8116.2.5.2.  Guest rooms, other than those legally converted
for light-housekeeping purposes, shall not contain a fuel-gas-burning or
electrically energized cooking appliance.91.8116.2.6.  The room shall contain
an approved sink with hot and cold running water.91.8116.2.7.  An approved
storage cabinet shall be installed in the room.  All food, dishes and cooking
and eating utensils shall be stored therein when not in use.91.8116.2.8.  The
bed in such a room, or any drapes, curtains or other readily combustible
material shall be so located that they do not come in contact with the cooking
appliances, if any.91.8116.2.9.  Any toilet room opening directly into such a
room shall have a tight-fitting door.91.8116.2.10.  An approved method of
heating shall be installed in each such room.  Cooking appliances shall not be
used for the purpose of heating such rooms.  No cooking appliance shall be
installed within a closet in such a room.91.8116.3.  Bath and Water Closet
Facilities.  In any building containing six or more light-housekeeping rooms,
there shall be one water closet and one bath facility for each five units or
fraction thereof.  In any building containing five or less light-housekeeping
rooms, there shall be one water closet and one bath facility which may be in the
same room for each three light-housekeeping units in the building.  Such toilet
and bath facilities shall be accessible to and from a public hallway.
