                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION. (§ 91.8809)

  MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8809.1.  General.  All
materials permitted by this Code, including their appropriate allowable stresses
and those existing configurations of materials specified herein, may be utilized
to meet the requirements of this division.91.8809.2.  Existing
Materials.91.8809.2.1.  General.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff.
4/15/98.)  Unreinforced masonry walls analyzed in accordance with this section
may provide vertical support for roof and floor construction and resistance to
lateral loads.	All units of both bearing and nonbearing walls shall be laid with
full shoved mortar joints; all head, bed and wall (collar) joints shall be
solidly filled with mortar; and the bonding of adjacent wythes of multiwythe
walls shall be as follows:	The facing and backing shall be bonded so that not
less than 4 percent of the wall surface of each face is composed of headers
extending not less than four inches (102 mm) into the backing.  The distance
between adjacent full-length headers shall not exceed 24 inches (610 mm) either
vertically or horizontally. In walls in which a single header does not extend
through the wall, headers from the opposite sides shall overlap at least four
inches (102 mm), or headers from opposite sides shall be covered with another
header course overlapping the header below at least four inches (102 mm).	Wythes
of walls not bonded as described above shall be considered as veneer.  The
veneer wythe shall not be included in the effective thickness used in
calculating the height-to-thickness ratio and the shear capacity of the
wall.	Tension stresses due to seismic forces normal to the wall may be neglected
if the wall does not exceed the height-to-thickness ratio in Table No. 88-G and
the in-plane shear stresses due to seismic loads as set forth in Table No.
88-J.	If the wall height-to-thickness ratio exceeds the specified limits, the
wall may be supported by vertical bracing members designed in accordance with
Division 16 of this Code.  The deflection of such bracing member at design
loads shall not exceed one tenth of the wall thickness.	EXCEPTION:  The wall
may be supported by flexible vertical bracing members designed in accordance
with Section 91.8808.2 if the deflection at design loads is not less than one
quarter or more than one third of the wall thickness.	All vertical bracing
members shall be attached to floor and roof construction for their design loads
independently of required wall anchors.  Horizontal spacing of vertical bracing
members shall not exceed one half the unsupported height of the wall or 10 feet
(3048 mm).	The wall height may be measured vertically to bracing elements other
than a floor or roof.  Spacing of the bracing elements and wall anchors shall
not exceed six feet (1829 mm). Bracing elements shall be detailed to minimize
the horizontal displacement of the wall by components of vertical displacements
of the floor or roof.91.8809.2.2.  Veneer.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff.
8/8/11.)  Veneer shall be anchored with approved anchor ties conforming to the
required design capacity specified in Section 91.1405 of this Code and placed at
a maximum spacing of 24 inches (610 mm).	EXCEPTION:  Existing veneer anchor
ties may be acceptable provided the ties are in good condition and conform to
the minimum size, maximum spacing and material requirements specified in the
provisions of the Los Angeles Building Ordinances in effect prior to October 6,
1933.  Said provisions specified that veneer anchor ties shall be corrugated
galvanized iron strips not less than one inch (25 mm) in width, eight inches
(203 mm) in length and 1/16 inch (1.6 mm) in thickness and shall be located and
laid in every alternate course in the vertical height of the wall at a spacing
not to exceed 17 inches (432 mm) on center horizontally.  As an alternate, said
provisions specified that such ties may be laid in every fourth course
vertically at a spacing not to exceed nine inches (229 mm) on center
horizontally.	The existence and condition of existing veneer anchor ties shall
be verified as follows:	1.	An approved testing laboratory shall verify the
location and spacing of the ties and shall submit a report to the Department for
approval as a part of the structural analysis.	2.	The veneer in a selected area
shall be removed to expose a representative sample of ties (not less than four)
for inspection by the Department.91.8809.2.3.  Existing Roof, Floors, Walls,
Footings and Wood Framing.  Existing materials, including wood shear walls
utilized in the described configuration, may be used as part of the lateral
load-resisting system, provided that the stresses in these materials do not
exceed the values shown in Table No. 88-H.91.8809.3.  Strengthening of Existing
Materials.  New materials, including wood shear walls, may be utilized to
strengthen portions of the existing seismic resisting system in the described
configurations, provided that the stresses do not exceed the values shown in
Table No. 88-I.91.8809.4.  Alternate Materials.  Alternate materials, designs
and methods of construction may be approved by the Department in accordance with
the provisions of Article 8, Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.91.8809.5  Minimum Acceptable Quality of Existing Unreinforced Masonry
Walls.91.8809.5.1.  General Provisions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff.
4/15/98.)  All unreinforced masonry walls utilized to carry vertical loads and
seismic forces parallel and perpendicular to the wall plane shall be tested as
specified in this section.  All masonry quality shall equal or exceed the
minimum standards established herein or shall be removed and replaced by new
materials. Alternate methods of testing may be approved by the Department.  The
quality of mortar in all masonry walls shall be determined by performing
in-place shear tests or by testing eight-inch (203 mm) diameter cores.	The
vertical wall joint between wythes (collar joints) shall be inspected at the
test location after the in-place shear tests, and an estimate of the percentage
of wythe-to-wythe mortar coverage shall be reported along with the results of
the in-place shear tests.  Where the exterior face is veneer, the type of
veneer, its thickness and its bonding and/or ties to the structural wall masonry
shall also be reported.	Alternative methods of testing may be approved by the
Department.  Nothing shall prevent pointing with mortar of all the masonry wall
joints before the tests are first made.  Prior to any pointing, the mortar
joints must be raked and cleaned to remove loose and deteriorated mortar. 
Mortar for pointing shall be Type S or N except masonry cements shall not be
used.  All preparation and mortar pointing shall be done under the continuous
inspection of a registered deputy inspector.  At the conclusion of the
inspection, the inspector shall submit a written report to the licensed engineer
or architect responsible for the seismic analysis of the building setting forth
the result of the work inspected.  Such report shall be submitted to the
Department for approval as part of the structural analysis.	All testing shall
meet Department-approved testing method parameters (including rate of load
application) and shall be performed in accordance with the requirements
specified in this section by a testing agency approved by the Department.	An
accurate record of all such tests and their location in the building shall be
recorded and these results shall be submitted to the Department for approval as
part of the structural analysis.91.8809.5.2.  Number and Location of Tests. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  The minimum number of tests shall
be as follows:	1.	At each of both the first and top stories, not less than two
per wall line or line of wall elements providing a common line of resistance to
lateral forces.	2.	At each of all other stories, not less than one per wall
element providing a common line of resistance to lateral forces.	3.	In any case,
not less than one per 1,500 square feet (139.4 m2) of wall surface and a total
of eight.	The shear tests shall be taken at locations representative of the
mortar conditions throughout the entire building, taking into account variations
in workmanship at different building height levels, variations in weathering of
the exterior surfaces and variations in the condition of the interior surfaces
due to deterioration caused by leaks and condensation of water and/or by the
deleterious effects of other substances contained within the building.  Where
the higher h/t ratios allowed in Footnotes Nos. 4 and 5 of Table No. 88-G are to
be used, the in-place shear tests taken at the top story shall be included in
the 80 percent of the shear tests used to determine the minimum mortar shear
strength.	The exact test or core location shall be determined at the building
site by the licensed engineer or architect responsible for the seismic analysis
of the subject building.91.8809.5.3.  In-Place Shear Tests.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  The bed joints of the outer wythe of the masonry
shall be tested in shear by laterally displacing a single brick relative to the
adjacent bricks in that wythe.  The mortar in the opposite head joint of the
brick to be tested shall be removed and cleaned prior to testing.  The minimum
quality mortar in 80 percent of the shear tests shall not be less than the total
of 30 psi (206.9 kPa) plus the axial stress in the wall at the point of the
test.  The shear stress shall be based on the gross area of both bed joints and
shall be that shear stress at which movement of the masonry is first measured or
at which cracking first appears.	An internal caliper, graduated in 0.001 of an
inch (0.025 mm) increments shall be used to measure movement of the masonry
unit.  A hydraulic jack equipped with a pressure gauge graduated in increments
of 50 psi (345 kPa) or less shall be used.  The jack load shall be applied at a
rate not exceeding 5,000 pounds (22 240 N) per minute.	The test shall be
conducted by a minimum of two technicians.  Load and displacement readings
shall be recorded at the following intervals:	1.	At a caliper reading of 0.001
inch (0.025 mm);	2.	At first visually observed sign of movement or cracking of
the mortar or masonry unit;	3.	At a caliper reading of 0.02 inch (0.51 mm);
and	4.	The ultimate load on the unit.	The masonry unit to be tested shall not be
located adjacent to a bond course in a brick wall laid in common bond.  Tests
to evaluate the mortar quality of structural walls shall not be conducted in
masonry veneer.	Walls with mortar values which are consistently low and do not
meet the minimum quality values specified in this Section shall be entirely
pointed per Chapter A1, Section A103 and A106.3.3.9 of 2007 California Existing
Building Code except that the depth of joint penetration shall be 1-l/2 inch (38
mm) in lieu of the 3/4 inch (19 mm) specified.91.8809.5.4.  Core Tests. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  A minimum number of mortar test
specimens equal to the number of required cores shall be prepared from the cores
and tested as specified herein.  The mortar joint of the outer wythe of the
masonry core shall be tested in shear by placing the circular core section in a
compression testing machine with the mortar bed joint rotated 15 degrees from
the axis of the applied load.  The mortar joint tested in shear shall have an
average ultimate stress of 20 psi (138 kPa) based on the gross area.  The
average shall be obtained from the total number of cores made.  If test
specimens cannot be made from cores taken, the shear value shall be reported as
zero.91.8809.6.  Testing of Shear Bolts.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff.
4/15/98.)  One fourth of all new shear bolts and dowels embedded in
unreinforced masonry walls shall be tested by a registered deputy building
inspector using a torque calibrated wrench to the following minimum
torques:	1/2-inch-diameter bolts or dowels – 40 foot-pounds.	5/8-inch-diameter
bolts or dowels – 50 foot-pounds.	3/4-inch-diameter bolts or dowels – 60
foot-pounds.	For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm, 1 foot-pound = 1.356 Nm	No bolts
exceeding 3/4-inch (19.1 mm) shall be used.  All nuts shall be installed over
malleable iron or plate washers when bearing on wood and heavy cut washers when
bearing on steel.91.8809.7.  Determination of Allowable Stresses for Design
Methods Based on Test Results.91.8809.7.1.  Design Shear Values.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  Design seismic in-plane shear stresses shall
be substantiated by tests performed as specified in Section 91.8809.5.3 and
91.8809.5.4.	Design stresses shall be related to test results obtained in
accordance with Table No. 88-J.  Intermediate values between 3 and 10 psi (20.7
kPa and 69 kPa) may be interpolated.91.8809.7.2.  Design compression and
tension values.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  Compression
stresses for unreinforced masonry having a minimum design shear value of three
psi (20.7 kPa) shall not exceed 100 psi (690 kPa).  Design tension values for
unreinforced masonry shall not be permitted.91.8809.8.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  Five percent of the existing rod anchors utilized as
all or part of the required wall anchors shall be tested in pullout by an
approved testing laboratory.  The minimum number tested shall be four per
floor, with two tests at walls with joists framing into the wall and two tests
at walls with joists parallel to the wall.  The test apparatus shall be
supported on the masonry wall at a minimum distance of the wall thickness from
the anchor tested.  The rod anchor shall be given a preload of 300 pounds (136
kg) prior to establishing a datum for recording elongation.  The tension test
load reported shall be recorded at 1/8–inch (3.2 mm) relative movement of the
anchor and the adjacent masonry surface. Results of all tests shall be
reported.  The report shall include the test results as related to the wall
thickness and joist orientation.  The allowable resistance value of the
existing anchors shall be 40 percent of the average of those tested anchors
having the same wall thickness and joist orientation.91.8809.9.  Qualification
tests for devices used for wall anchorage shall be tested with the entire
tension load carried on the enlarged head at the exterior face of the wall. Bond
on the part of the device between the enlarged head and the interior wall face
shall be eliminated for the qualification tests.  The resistance value assigned
the device shall be 20 percent of the average of the ultimate loads.
