                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ANALYSIS AND DESIGN. (§ 91.8808)

  ANALYSIS AND DESIGN.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8808.1.  General.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  Every structure within the scope of this
division shall be analyzed and constructed to resist minimum total lateral
seismic forces assumed to act non concurrently in the direction of each of the
main axes of the structure in accordance with the following formula:V  = 
IKCSW	(8-1)	The value of IKCS need not exceed the values set forth in Table No.
88-D based on the applicable rating classification of the building.91.8808.2. 
Lateral Forces on Elements of Structures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff.
8/8/11.)  Parts or portions of structures shall be analyzed and designed for
lateral loads in accordance with Sections 91.8808.1 of this Code and ASCE 7, but
not less than the value from the following formula:Fp	=	ICpSWp	(8-2)	For the
provisions of this Section, the product of IS need not exceed the values as set
forth in Table No. 88-E.	EXCEPTION:  Unreinforced masonry walls in buildings
not having a Rating Classification I may be analyzed in accordance with Section
91.8809.	The value of Cp need not exceed the values set forth in Table No.
88-F.91.8808.3.  Anchorage and Interconnection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939,
Eff. 4/15/98.)  Anchorage and interconnection of all parts, portions and
elements of the structure shall be analyzed and designed for lateral forces in
accordance with Table No. 88-F of this Code and Formula (8-2) as modified by
Table No. 88-E. Minimum anchorage of masonry walls to each floor or roof shall
resist a minimum force of 200 pounds per linear foot (2.92 kN/m) acting normal
to the wall at the level of the floor or roof.91.8808.4.  Level of Required
Repair.  Alterations and repairs required to meet the provisions of this
division shall comply with all other applicable requirements of this Code unless
specifically provided for in this division.91.8808.5.  Required
Analysis.91.8808.5.1.  General.  Except as modified herein, the analysis and
design relating to the structural alteration of existing structures within the
scope of this division shall be in accordance with the analysis specified in
Division 16 of this Code.	In addition, the compatibility of the roof diaphragm
stiffness with the out-of-plane stability of the unreinforced masonry bearing
walls of the story immediately below the roof system shall be verified in
accordance with the provisions of Section 91.8811.	EXCEPTION:  Buildings with
rigid concrete or steel and concrete roof diaphragms shall use the h/t values
for “all other buildings” in Table No. 88-G.91.8808.5.2.  Continuous Stress
Path.  A complete, continuous stress path from every part or portion of the
structure to the ground shall be provided for the required horizontal
forces.91.8808.5.3.  Positive Connections.  All parts, portions or elements of
the structure shall be interconnected by positive means.91.8808.6.  Analysis
Procedure.91.8808.6.1.  General.  Stresses in materials and existing
construction utilized to transfer seismic forces from the ground to parts or
portions of the structure shall conform to those permitted by the Code and those
materials and types of construction specified in Section 91.8809.91.8808.6.2. 
Connections.  Materials and connectors used for interconnection of parts and
portions of the structure shall conform to the Code. Nails may be used as part
of an approved connector.91.8808.6.3.  Unreinforced Masonry Walls.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  Except as modified here, unreinforced
masonry walls shall be analyzed as specified in the applicable parts of CBC
Sections 2106 and 2107 to withstand all vertical loads as specified in Division
16 of this Code in addition to the seismic forces required by this
Division.	Substantial changes in wall thickness or stiffness shall be considered
in the analysis for out-of-plane and in-plane wall stability, and the wall shall
be restrained against out-of- plane instability by anchorage and bracing to the
roof or floor diaphragm in accordance with Section 91.8808.3 of this
Code.	EXCEPTION: Variations in wall stiffness caused by nominal openings such as
windows and exit doors need not be considered.  	No allowable tension stress
will be permitted in unreinforced masonry walls.  Walls not capable of
resisting the required design forces specified in this division shall be
strengthened or shall be removed and replaced.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Unreinforced
masonry walls in buildings not classified as a Rating Classification I pursuant
to Table No. 88-A may be analyzed in accordance with Section 91.8809 of this
Code.	2.	Unreinforced masonry walls which carry no design loads other than their
own weight may be considered as veneer if they are adequately anchored to new
supporting elements.91.8808.7.  Combination of Vertical and Seismic
Forces.91.8808.7.1.  New Materials.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff.
12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  All new materials introduced into the structure to
meet the requirements of this section, which are subjected to combined vertical
and horizontal forces, shall comply with CBC Section 1605.91.8808.7.2. 
Existing Materials.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)  When stresses in existing lateral force-resisting elements are due to
a combination of dead and live loads plus seismic loads, the allowable working
stress specified in the Code may be increased 100 percent.  However, no
increase will be permitted in the stresses allowed in LAMC Section 91.8809, and
the stresses in members due only to seismic and dead loads shall not exceed the
values permitted by CBC Section 1605.91.8808.7.3.  Allowable Reduction of
Bending Stress by Vertical Load.   In calculating tensile fiber stress due to
seismic forces required by this division, the maximum tensile fiber stress may
be reduced by the full direct stress due to vertical dead loads.91.8808.8. 
Irregular Features.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)  All structures having any of the irregular features described in 
Table 12.3-1 or Table 12.3-2 of ASCE-7 shall be designated to meet the
additional requirements of those sections referenced in the tables.
