                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS. (§ 91.8604)

  FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8604.1 General.91.8604.1.1
Notification.91.8604.1.1.1.  Whenever the Department of Building and Safety
determines by inspection that a building does not conform to the minimum
requirements of either Sections 91.8604.2, 91.8604.3, 91.8604.4 or 91.8604.5,
the Department of Building and Safety shall prepare a written Repair Order
directing the owner to repair and modify the building so as to conform to those
minimum requirements.  The Department of Building and Safety shall serve the
order either personally or by certified or registered mail, upon the owner as
shown on the last equalized assessment roll and may serve the order upon the
person, if any, in real or apparent charge or control of the building.	The order
shall specify the manner in which the building fails to meet the minimum
requirements of either Sections 91.8604.2, 91.8604.3, 91.8604.4 or 91.8604.5.
The order shall direct the owner of the building to submit plans, obtain the
necessary permits and complete the necessary corrections.91.8604.1.1.2. 
Whenever, pursuant to Section 57.01.22 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, the
Fire Department determines by inspection that a building does not conform to the
minimum requirements of Section 91.8604.6, it shall prepare a written Fire/Life
Safety Order directing the owner to repair and modify the building so as to
conform to the minimum requirements of Section 91.8604.6.	The order shall
specify the manner in which the building fails to meet the minimum requirements
of Section 91.8604.6.  The order shall direct the owner of the building to
submit plans, obtain necessary permits and complete the necessary
corrections.	The order shall be transmitted to the Department of Building and
Safety for service, recordation and enforcement purposes.  The Department of
Building and Safety shall serve the order, either personally or by certified or
registered mail, upon the owner as shown on the last equalized assessment roll
and may serve the person, if any, in real or apparent charge or control of the
building.  The provisions of this subparagraph are not intended to prevent the
Department of Building and Safety from also making a determination or issuing an
order regarding failure to comply with Section 91.8604.6.91.8604.1.2.  Time for
Compliance.91.8604.1.2.1.  Whenever the Department of Building and Safety
serves a Fire Safety Standards Repair Order pursuant to Section 91.8604.1.1.1
above, the owner of a building shall submit plans and obtain necessary permits
as required in that order not later than 90 days after service of the order and
shall complete necessary corrections not later than one year after service of
the order for work under Sections 91.8604.2, 91.8604.3, 91.8604.4 or
91.8604.5.  No extension of time, either to submit plans, obtain permits or
complete the necessary corrections shall be granted except by the Board of
Building and Safety Commissioners upon a finding of unusual circumstances which
warrant an extension.91.8604.1.2.2.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,284, Eff.
12/17/98.)  Whenever the Department of Building and Safety serves a Fire/Life
Safety Order pursuant to Section 91.8604.1.1.2, the owner of a building
shall:	(1)	submit main system plans, which include Plans for any required water
storage tank, fire pump(s), Fire Department connection(s) and all sprinkler
riser valves for sprinkler connections of each floor;	(2)	obtain necessary main
system permits as required in that order not later than one year after service
of the order; and	(3)	complete necessary corrections required by the Fire/Life
Safety Order not later than three years after service of the order for work
required under Section 91.8604.6.EXCEPTIONS TO THE TIME FOR WORK REQUIRED UNDER
SECTION 91.8604.6:	1.	VACANT BUILDING.  If a building is vacant and secured
from unauthorized entry, then the owner of the building may apply to the
Department of Building and Safety for an extension of time to comply with the
requirements of Section 91.8604.6.  An extension of time may be granted for a
two year period and may be renewed for two year time periods, unless to do so
poses a threat of health or safety.  This extension of time expires and the
building is subject to enforcement procedures if it is no longer adequately
secured from unauthorized entry.	2.	BUILDINGS ONLY OCCUPIED BELOW THE SECOND
FLOOR.  If a building is only occupied below the second floor and all floors
from the second floor and above are vacant and secured from unauthorized entry,
then, the owner(s) of that building may apply to the Department of Building and
Safety for an extension of time to comply with the requirements of Section
91.8604.6, provided sprinklers are installed on the occupied floors(s) and a
two-hour fire-rated separation is provided between the vacant and occupied
floors.  Such an extension of time may be granted for a two year period and may
be renewed for additional two year time periods, unless to do so poses a threat
to health or safety.  No vacant portion of the building may be reoccupied until
the requirements of Section 91.8604.1.2.2 EXCEPTION 3 are satisfied.  This
extension of time expires and the building is subject to enforcement procedures
if it is no longer adequately secured above the first floor from unauthorized
entry.	3.	BUILDINGS WITH OCCUPANCY ABOVE THE FIRST FLOOR.  The owner of a
building cited for a violation of Section 91.8604.6 may request an extension of
time to comply with those requirements.  Extensions of time may be granted for
a period of one year from the date of application and may be renewed  for two
additional one year periods.  The owner shall submit to the Department a plan
of action to:	(a)	Install fire sprinklers including the base system, fire alarm,
emergency power and stairwell ventilation from the ground floor up to the floor
above the highest occupied floor; and	(b)	Bring elevator lobby vestibules on all
required floors up to the highest occupied floor into compliance.	An additional
three year extension of time to comply with the requirements of Section
91.8604.6 on the remaining unoccupied floors of the building may be granted
subject to the owner completing all requirements in the occupied portions of the
building within the time guidelines of their plan of action, unless to do so
poses a threat of health or safety.	4.	ASBESTOS.  If an owner of a building
commits to a program of abatement of asbestos, then the Department of Building
and Safety may grant an extension of time to complete the work required under
Section 91.8604.6 provided that all necessary permits are obtained and the
required water storage tank, fire pumps, riser and all sprinkler riser valves
for sprinkler connections on each floor are installed and operational prior to
the grant of any extension.	Subsequent extension approvals beyond the initial
approval shall also be conditioned on progress of work in conformance with the
plan of  work submitted with the approved extension of time.	Request for an
extension of time under EXCEPTIONS 1-4 above shall be filed on an application
form provided by the Department of Building and Safety and signed by the owner
of the building.  Applications are subject to review and action by the
Department of Building and Safety with concurrence by the Fire Department.  An
extension of time may be granted only where a good faith effort to comply can be
demonstrated by the applicant.  Applications shall be processed according to
the guidelines set forth in Section 98.0403.2.91.8604.1.2.3.  Recordation.  At
the time that the Department of Building and Safety serves a Fire/Life Safety
Order or Fire Safety Repair Order, the Department shall file with the Office of
the County Recorder a certificate stating that the building does not meet the
minimum fire safety requirements of Sections 91.8604.2, 91.8604.3, 91.8604.4,
91.8604.5 or 91.8604.6 and that the owner of the building has been so
notified.	After all necessary corrective work has been performed, the Department
of Building and Safety shall file with the Office of the County Recorder a
certificate terminating the status of the building as nonconforming to the
minimum fire safety requirements of Sections 91.8604.2, 91.8604.3, 91.8604.4,
91.8604.5 or 91.8604.6.91.8604.1.2.4.  Enforcement.  Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Code to the contrary, it shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to maintain, use or occupy any building within the scope of
this section which does not meet the minimum standards specified in Section
91.8604.6.	Any person who fails to comply with an order issued pursuant to this
section, within each of the time periods set forth in Section 91.8604.1.2.2, or
who causes or permits another person to fail to comply with such an order, is
guilty of a misdemeanor which is punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00
and/or six months imprisonment.	For purposes of this paragraph, the phrase
“any person” includes an owner, or lessor, sublessor, manager or any person
in control of a building subject to this section. The legal owner of a building
is that person, firm, corporation, partnership or other entity whose name or
title appears in the records in the Office of the County Recorder, as well as
all successors or assignees of these owners.	In addition to any other remedy
available at law, if the owner or other person in charge and control of the
building fails to comply with an aforementioned order within the time periods
set forth in Section 91.8604.1, the Department of Building and Safety may order
that the building be vacated and that the building remain vacated until all
required corrective work has been completed.  Whenever compliance with an order
issued pursuant to the provision of this section has not been accomplished
within 90 days after the date the building has been ordered vacated, or such
additional time as may have been granted by the Board, the Department may order
demolition of the building, in accordance with the provisions of Division 89 of
this Code.91.8604.2.  Commercial Buildings.91.8604.2.1.  Purpose.  The
purpose of this subsection is to provide a reasonable degree of fire safety for
persons occupying existing commercial and industrial buildings.91.8604.2.2. 
Scope.  The provisions of this section shall apply to all existing commercial
and industrial buildings more than two stories in height which do not conform to
the minimum shaft enclosure and exit requirements of this Code and which are not
required to comply with Section 1733 of Part 2, Title 24, of the California
Administrative Code for existing buildings over 75 feet in height.  The
provisions of this subsection shall not authorize the modification of existing
buildings or portions thereof which provide a greater degree of protection
against fire than the minimum requirements established by this
subsection.	EXCEPTION:  The requirements of this subsection shall not apply to
buildings erected after January 1, 1943.91.8604.2.3.  Shaft Enclosures. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  Every opening in a floor shall be
enclosed as required by CBC Section 708 for shaft enclosures, provided, however,
that existing enclosure walls constructed of wood lath and plaster or equivalent
fire-resistive materials and which are in good condition may be accepted in lieu
of enclosure wall construction.	Corridor exits, which are interrupted by
stairwell enclosures required by this subdivision, shall be provided with exit
door fire assemblies, which will close automatically when activated by an
approved smoke detector.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	The shaft protection required by this
paragraph may be omitted if the building is sprinklered throughout.	2.	Existing
metal elevator doors need not be replaced if they are in good condition.  These
doors may have openings protected with wire glass.91.8604.2.4.  Exits.  Two
reasonably separated and accessible exits shall be provided from each
floor.	EXCEPTION:  Existing fire escapes which are in structurally sound
operational condition may be used as one means of egress.	Exit signal with
letters at least six inches high shall be installed in conspicuous locations at
each exit from the floor and whenever otherwise required to clearly indicate the
direction of egress from area served.91.8604.3.  Residential
Buildings.91.8604.3.1.  Purpose.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07,
Oper. 1/1/08.)  The purpose of this subsection is to provide a reasonable
degree of fire safety for persons living and sleeping in apartment houses,
hotels, apartment hotels, and in buildings housing Group R-4 or I-1 occupancy. 
Group R-4 or I-1 occupancy includes homes with medical care for ambulatory
patients or children six years of age or over, and honor farms or conservation
camps housing inmates who are not restrained.  Alterations are required to
these existing buildings, which do not conform to the minimum exiting, shaft
enclosure and corridor protection requirements of this Code.91.8604.3.2. 
Scope.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The
provisions of this subsection shall apply to all existing buildings more than
two stories in height, which contain Group R-1, R-2, R-4 or I-1 Occupancy. 
Group R-4 or I-1 occupancy include homes with medical care for ambulatory
patients or children six years of age or over, and honor farms or conservation
camps housing inmates who are not restrained.  The provisions of this
subsection shall not authorize the modification of existing buildings or
portions of buildings, which provide a greater degree of protection against fire
than the minimum requirements established by this subsection.91.8604.3.3. 
Corridor Walls and Openings.  The walls of every public corridor shall be
protected by one-hour fire-resistive construction, provided, however, that
existing walls constructed of wood lath and plaster and which are in good
condition, will be acceptable in lieu thereof.	Transoms and openings other than
doors from public corridors to guest rooms and dwelling units shall be closed
and solidly covered with material which will provide the degree of fire
resistiveness as shall be provided by adjacent corridor walls.	All door openings
from public corridors to guest rooms and dwelling units shall provide the same
degree of fire resistiveness as shall be provided by adjacent corridor
walls.	EXCEPTION:  Door openings from public corridors to guest rooms and
dwelling units may have 20-minute protection, provided:	A.	All stairways,
hallways, exitways and storage or closet areas adjacent thereto are sprinklered;
and	B.	A sprinkler head is placed inside each unit adjacent to each door opening
from the public corridor to the guest room or dwelling unit; and	C.	An approved
self-closing device is installed on each door opening from the public corridor
into the guest room or dwelling unit.91.8604.3.4.  Shaft Enclosures.  All
stairwells shall be enclosed in approved shaft enclosures, provided, however,
that existing enclosure walls constructed of wood lath and plaster which are in
good condition will be accepted in lieu of approved shaft wall
construction.	EXCEPTION:  In buildings erected prior to January 1, 1943, stair
shaft enclosures may be omitted if the building is sprinklered throughout and
the sprinkler system is interconnected to the alarm system required under
Section 91.8604.5 of this Code.91.8604.3.5.  Existing
Conditions.91.8604.3.5.1.  Existing means of exit, including fire escapes, are
acceptable where they exist in the required number and are maintained in good
condition.91.8604.3.5.2.  No standpipes will be required where none
exist.91.8604.3.5.3.  No emergency hallway illumination will be required where
none exist.91.8604.3.5.4.  Dead-end corridors not over 20 feet in length may
have access to a second exit through a stair shaft enclosure.91.8604.4.  Fire
Safety for Existing Group R-4 or I-1 Occupancy.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324,
Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  This section applies to every existing Group R-4
or I-1 Occupancy over two stories in height with homes providing medical care
for ambulatory patients or children six years of age or over, or with honor
farms or conservation camps housing un-restrained inmates.  When these
buildings do not conform to the minimum shaft and corridor protection
requirements of this Code, they shall be made to conform to the minimum
requirements as specified in LAMC Section 91.8604.3.91.8604.5.  Fire Protection
Standards for Existing Group R-1 or R-2 Occupancies Erected Prior to January 1,
1943.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)91.8604.5.1.  Scope.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07,
Oper. 1/1/08.)  The provisions of this section are in addition to those in LAMC
Section 91.8604.3 and apply to all existing buildings three or more stories in
height, which contain Group R-1 or R-2 Occupancies and which were erected prior
to January 1, 1943.91.8604.5.2.  Closure of Doors.  All required stair shaft,
cut-off and area separation doors shall be equipped with approved self-closing
devices and electrically operated hold-open devices designed to release the door
by the activation of smoke detectors located on each side of the doorway and
within 12 inches of the ceiling.91.8604.5.3.  Sprinklers.  All interior
stairways, hallways, exits and storage or closet areas adjacent thereto shall be
provided with an approved automatic sprinkler system connected with an alarm
system that emits an audible signal throughout the premises.  In any room
having a door opening into an interior hallway, stairway or exitway, a sprinkler
head shall be located inside the room directly over the door. Sprinklers so
installed shall be equipped with listed residential sprinkler heads and may
utilize polybutylene plastic pipe for laterals only.  Sprinkler materials and
installation shall comply with the Plumbing Code and Supplemental Rules and
Regulations.91.8604.5.4.  Self-closing Device.  Each apartment or guest room
door opening into an interior stairway, hallway or exit shall be equipped with
an approved self-closing device.91.8604.5.5.  State Fire Code.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  Where the Group R-1 or R-2
Occupancy regulated by this section has floors used for human occupancy more
than 75 feet above the lowest floor level having building access, the provisions
of Part 2 of Title 24 of the California Administrative Code relating to those
occupancy shall apply in lieu of any less restrictive provisions set forth in
this section.91.8604.6.  Fire Safety Standards for Existing High-Rise
Buildings.91.8604.6.1.  Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to provide a
reasonable degree of fire safety for persons occupying existing high-rise
buildings.91.8604.6.2.  Scope.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07,
Oper. 1/1/08.)  The provisions of this section shall apply to every existing
high-rise building for which a building permit was issued prior to July 1,
1974.	EXCEPTION:  The provisions of this section shall not apply to Group R-1
or R-2 Occupancy, as defined in CBC Section 310.1.  The provisions of this
section shall not authorize the modification of existing buildings or portions
of the buildings, which provide a greater degree of protection against fire than
the minimum requirements established by this section.91.8604.6.3. 
Definition.  For the purposes of this section, a high-rise building is a
building of any type of construction having floors (as measured from the top of
the floor surface) that may be used for human occupancy located more than 75
feet above the lowest floor level having building access.91.8604.6.4. 
Requirements.  Every building within the scope of this section shall be
provided with an automatic fire sprinkler system complying with all applicable
sections of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  The sprinkler system shall cover
all areas of the building.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Sprinklers need not be installed in
locations expressly excepted in the Los Angeles Plumbing Code provided other
approved fire protection equipment is installed.	2.	The Department of Building
and Safety may review, on a case by case basis, buildings within the scope of
this section and may approve alternative fire protection systems which meet the
intent of the high-rise sprinkler requirements.	3.	The Department of Building
and Safety may, with the concurrence of the Fire Department, grant exceptions
from the requirements of Chapter IX, Article 4, Division 7 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code as specified in Section 91.8604.6.5.91.8604.6.5.  Conditional
Exceptions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,829, Eff. 10/27/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)  The
following exceptions from the requirements set forth in Section 94.2001 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code are available upon application to the Department
provided all the stated conditions are met for each category of
building.91.8604.6.5.1.  Existing Buildings 75 feet to 150 Feet in
Height.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Existing risers may be used when maintained in a safe and
operable condition.	2.	New, on-site water storage need not be provided.  (When
existing on-site water storage is available, it may be integrated into the fire
sprinkler system.)	CONDITIONS:	1.	A three-inch test drain shall be provided in
stair shafts where pressure- regulator valves are used. Valves, equipment and
devices shall conform to Los Angeles Plumbing Code requirements.	2.	A single
pump having a minimum capacity of 750 g.p.m. shall be provided.  (Diesel pumps
shall have a four-hour fuel supply.)	3.	There shall be a flow of 750 g.p.m. at
65 psi at the roof, and the sprinkler system design shall meet code
requirements.	4.	Existing sprinkler systems, existing or new standpipe systems
and existing or new sprinkler risers shall be interconnected at the base of the
riser system with a minimum of one fire Department connection.	5.	Emergency
standby electrical power with a four-hour fuel supply shall be provided for fire
pumps and the following new installations:	Fire protective signaling systems;
	Emergency exit lighting; and
	Exit and directional signs.91.8604.6.5.2.  Existing Buildings Over 150 Feet to
275 Feet in Height.	EXCEPTION:  Existing risers may be used when maintained in
a safe and operable condition.	CONDITIONS:	1.	A three-inch test drain shall he
provided in each stair shaft where pressure- regulator valves are used. 
Valves, equipment and devices shall conform to Los Angeles Plumbing Code
requirements.	2.	At least two pumps connected to the automatic sprinkler system
having a minimum capacity of 750 g.p.m. each shall be provided.  (Diesel pumps
shall have a four hour fuel supply.)	3.	There shall be a flow of 750 g.p.m. at
65 psi at the roof, and the sprinkler system design shall meet code
requirements.	4.	Existing sprinkler systems, new and existing standpipe systems
and new and existing sprinkler risers shall be interconnected at the base of the
riser system with at least one fire Department connection.	5.	Emergency standby
electrical power with a four hour fuel supply shall be provided for fire pumps
and the following new installations:	Fire-protective signaling systems;
	Emergency exit lighting; and
	Exit and directional signs.	6.	A minimum usable capacity of 20,000 gallon
storage tank shall be provided on site.91.8604.6.5.3.  Existing Buildings
Greater Than 275 Feet in Height.	EXCEPTION:  Existing risers may be used when
maintained in a safe and operable condition.	CONDITIONS:	1.	A three-inch test
drain shall be provided in each stair shaft where pressure- reduction valves are
used.  Valves, equipment and devices shall conform to Los Angeles Plumbing Code
requirements.	2.	At least three pumps connected to the automatic sprinkler
system having a minimum capacity of 750 g.p.m. each shall be provided.	At least
one pump shall be an electric motor-driven pump.  (Diesel pumps shall have a
four hour fuel supply.)	3.	There shall be a flow of 1,000 g.p.m. at 65 psi at
the roof, and the sprinkler system design shall meet code
requirements.	4.	Existing sprinkler systems, new and existing standpipe systems,
and new and existing sprinkler risers shall be interconnected at the base of the
riser system with at least one Fire Department connection.	5.	Emergency standby
electrical power with a four hour fuel supply shall be provided for fire pumps
and the following new installations:	Fire-protective signaling systems;
	Emergency exit lighting; and
	Exit and directional signs.	6.	A minimum usable capacity of 40,000 gallon water
storage tank shall be provided on site.91.8604.6.6.  Elevator Lobbies. 
Existing high-rise buildings within the scope of this section shall comply with
the following:	1.	Except for the main entrance level, every elevator on each
floor shall open into an elevator lobby which is separated from the remainder of
the building, including corridors and other exits, by walls having a
fire-resistive rating of not less than one hour.  All lobby openings other than
those for elevator doors, stairway enclosures and ducts shall be protected with
three-fourths-hour self-closing fire assemblies actuated by combustion
products-type smoke detectors.	2.	Except for the main entrance level, each
elevator lobby shall be provided with an approved smoke detector located on the
lobby ceiling.  When the detector is activated, elevator doors shall not open
and all cars serving that lobby shall return to the main floor and be under
manual control only.  The smoke detector shall meet the requirements of Title
8, California Administrative Code (Elevator Safety Orders).  The detector may
serve to close the lobby doors.91.8604.6.7.  Stair Shaft Ventilation.  Each
stair shaft which extends to the roof shall be provided with a minimum
ventilation opening of 20 square feet at the roof level.
