                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CERTIFICATE OF BUILDING COMPLIANCE. (§ 91.8205)

  CERTIFICATE OF BUILDING COMPLIANCE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8205.1.  General.  If the
owner of an existing building desires to determine whether the building is in
compliance with applicable sections of Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code for existing buildings, the owner may make application to the Department
for a Certificate of Building Compliance.91.8205.2.  Fees.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  Before any application for such
Certificate of Building Compliance is accepted, a fee shall be paid by the
applicant to cover the cost to the City for the necessary inspection and
report.  The amount of the fee shall be as shown in Table No. 82–A.TABLE 82-A
CERTIFICATE OF BUILDING COMPLIANCE INSPECTION FEE.
(Former Table 82-B Redesignated 82-A by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper.
7/1/99.)
  
    
      
        Residential Building*
      
    
    
      
        Section
      
      
        Fee
      
    
    
      
        Single-family dwelling or the first dwelling unit on the premises	
      
      
        $ 185.00
      
    
    
      
        Each additional dwelling unit on the premises up to four units total	
      
      
        $ 105.00 per unit
      
    
    
      
        Each dwelling unit in excess of four units	
      
      
        $ 68.00 per unit
      
    
    
      
        Each guest room or light-housekeeping room	
      
      
        $ 47.00 per unit
      
    
  
	*Inspection of buildings accessory to the residential building shall be
included as part of the inspection without an additional fee.
  
    
      
        Nonresidential Buildings*
      
    
    
      
        Affected Floor Area
      
      
        Fee
      
    
    
      
        0 – 2,500 square feet	
      
      
        $ 315.00
      
    
    
      
        2,501 – 5,000 square feet	
      
      
        $ 470.00
      
    
    
      
        5,001 – 7,500 square feet	
      
      
        $ 500.00
      
    
    
      
        7,501 -10,000 square feet	
      
      
        $ 600.00
      
    
    
      
        Each additional 10,000 square feet or fraction thereof
      
      
        $ 210.00
      
    
  
	*Inspection of buildings accessory to the residential building shall be
included as part of the inspection without an additional fee.NON-RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS
(Amended by Ord. No. 166,524, Eff. 1/29/91.)
  
    
      
        Affected Floor Area
      
      
        Fee
      
    
    
      
        0 – 2,500 square feet	
      
      
        $ 300.00
      
    
    
      
        2,501 – 5,000 square feet	
      
      
        450.00
      
    
    
      
        5,001 – 7,500 square feet	
      
      
        500.00
      
    
    
      
        7,501 – 10,000 square feet	
      
      
        600.00
      
    
    
      
        Each additional 10,000 square feet or fraction thereof	
      
      
        200.00
      
    
  
91.8205.3.  Inspection Procedures.  After the application has been accepted,
the Department shall cause an inspection to be made and a report prepared.  If,
after taking into account nonconforming rights, the inspection report indicates
that any building or portion thereof does not conform to the requirements of
Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, that portion shall be made to
conform.	When compliance has been secured, or if no corrections are required as
a result of the inspection report, the Department will issue to the owner a
Certificate of Building Compliance stating that the building is now in
substantial compliance with the applicable provisions of Chapter IX of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code for existing buildings.	The issuance of this certificate
shall not be construed by any person to be a representation, guarantee or
warranty of the premises for any purpose, including, but not limited to,
fitness, suitability, or freedom from defects, either latent or patent.  Nor is
the issuance of this certificate to be construed to be a waiver of any immunity
provided to public entities and public employees under state law, including, but
not limited to, those immunities provided by Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the
California Government Code.
