                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EMERGENCY HOMELESS SHELTERS. (§ 91.8605)

  EMERGENCY HOMELESS SHELTERS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8605.1.  Applicability of
Standards.  The provisions and standards set forth in Section 91.8605.2 shall
be applicable to any emergency shelter for the homeless which complies with and
is approved pursuant to Section 12.80 or Section 12.81 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.91.8605.2.  General.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, 8/8/11.) 
Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to the contrary, the following
requirements shall apply to emergency homeless shelters operated during a
shelter crisis, as provided for in Government Code Section 8698, et seq.  Other
than the requirements set forth below, the facilities need not comply with the
requirements of this Code for Group R occupancies unless otherwise specified in
this Code:	1.	The maximum occupant load allowed in these facilities shall be the
number determined appropriate by the professional service provider operating the
facility and/or the Community Development Department of the City of Los Angeles,
but in no event resulting in less than 50 square feet of usable area per
occupant.	2.	Fire Safety Requirements.	A.	All exits shall comply with Division
33 of Article 7 of Chapter V of Division 10 of this Code.	B.	Smoke detection
devices shall be provided in all sleeping areas and shall be installed in
accordance with Division 112 of Article 7 of Chapter V of this Code and CBC
Section 907.2.11.	C.	A fire alarm system capable of arousing occupants shall be
installed in accordance with Division 122 of Article 7 of Chapter V of this Code
and CBC Section 907.1.	D.	The use of any open flames and the possession or
storage of any combustibles shall not be permitted.	EXCEPTION:  The
Superintendent of Building may approve the use of open flames and storage of
combustibles in these buildings with concurrence of the Fire
Department.	E.	Sleeping quarters shall be limited to the ground floor
only.	3.	Security.	A.	An adequate number of security personnel shall remain on
the premises during actual occupancy for the protection of the occupants and
property.	B.	Adequate lighting for security purposes shall be provided at all
times.	4.	Light, Heating, Ventilation and Sanitation.	A.	 Exterior openings for
natural light and ventilation shall be provided as required for Group R
occupancy, CBC Sections 1203 and 1205.	B.	 All sleeping areas shall be provided
with heating facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 70°F at a
point eight feet above the floor.	C.	Every building shall be provided with at
least one water closet or at least two separate toilet facilities where both
sexes are accommodated.  Additional water closets shall be provided for each
sex at the rate of one for every 20 beds in excess of 20.	5.	Additional
Requirements.	A.	Operating procedures shall be developed by the professional
service provider and approved by the Community Development Department of the
City of Los Angeles.  These procedures shall be designed to maintain order and
safety within the Emergency Homeless Shelter.	B.	shall be open for occupancy
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.91.8605.3. 
Zoning.  Every facility used to shelter homeless persons pursuant to this
section shall comply with Section 12.80 or Section 12.81 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.
