                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE PROTECTION – WARNING SYSTEM. (§ 91.8603)

  FIRE PROTECTION – WARNING SYSTEM.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)91.8603.1.  Group
R, Division 1 and Division 2 Occupancies.91.8603.1.1.  Existing Residential
Building.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  Except as otherwise
provided in LAMC Section 91.8603.1.2, the provisions of CBC Section 907.2.11
shall apply to every dwelling unit, efficiency dwelling unit, guest room and
suite in any building where the original building permit was issued prior to May
18, 1980.  The smoke detectors may be battery operated until August 1, 1983, at
which time the smoke detectors shall be located and permanently wired as
required in CBC Section 907.2.11.	Nothing in this Section shall be construed to
waive the requirement for permanently wired smoke detectors, which was in effect
at the time the original building permit for the building was issued.	Every
permanently wired smoke detector installed in a corridor or area giving access
to the sleeping rooms shall be located within 12 feet six inches of the sleeping
room.  Where the location of the detector is less than 12 feet six inches of an
appliance, which produces products of combustion other than a forced-air heating
unit, a photoelectric type detector shall be required.  There shall be no more
than one door separating that type of detector from any room used for sleeping
purposes.  A permanently wired smoke detector installed pursuant to a permit
issued prior to July 31, 1981, need not comply with this paragraph until
replaced.91.8603.1.2.  Existing Apartment Hotels and Hotels Over 75 Feet in
Height.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, 8/8/11.)  Every existing apartment
hotel more than 75 feet in height and containing no more than nine dwelling
units and every existing hotel more than 75 feet in height, where the original
building permit for the building was issued prior to May 18, 1980, shall comply
with the provisions of CBC Section 907.2.11 not later than August 1,
1981. 	EXCEPTION:  The operative date for compliance may be delayed until
August 1, 1982, if the Department determines that the building complies with
either the provisions of CBC Sections 420 and 602.2 or CBC Section
3412.	Notwithstanding any other provision here to the contrary, every guest room
in any apartment hotel or hotel described in this Section when used as a
light-housekeeping room, as that term is described in Section 91.8116.1 of this
Code, shall be provided with smoke detectors in compliance with the provisions
of CBC Section 907.2.11 and the provisions of Section 91.8603.2 of this Code
pertaining to photoelectric type smoke detectors located in corridors or areas
giving access to sleeping rooms.  Smoke detectors may be battery operated until
August 1, 1982, at which time the smoke detectors shall be located and
permanently wired as required by CBC Section 907.2.11.91.8603.2.  Group R,
Division 3 Occupancies.91.8603.2.1.  Existing One-Family Dwellings.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  After July 31, 1980, existing one-family
dwellings shall be provided with smoke detectors, which may be battery operated,
located as specified in CBC Section 907.2.11 for Group R, Division 3
Occupancies, if:	1.	The dwelling is sold or exchanged and the original building
permit was issued prior to May 19, 1980; or	2.	Alterations, repairs or additions
requiring a permit are made or reroofing or shower pan replacement is performed
by a Certified Licensed Contractor pursuant to Section 91.108.12 of this Code
with a valuation in excess of $1,000.00; or	3.	One or more sleeping rooms are
added or created; or	4.	Bars, grilles, grates, roll-down security shutters, or
similar devices are installed on all emergency escape windows and exterior doors
of any sleeping rooms.	Nothing in this Section shall be construed to waive the
requirement to permanently install wired smoke detectors, which were required at
the time the original building permit for the building was issued.	For the
purposes of this subsection, the term “permit” shall not include permits
required for the repair or replacement of electrical, plumbing or mechanical
equipment.91.8603.2.2.  Existing Two-Family Dwellings.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  Every building containing two dwelling units and not
more than five guest rooms, where the original building permit was issued prior
to May 18, 1980, shall comply with the provisions of CBC Section 907.2.11 and
the provisions of LAMC Section 91.8603.2.1 pertaining to photoelectric-type
smoke detectors located in corridors or areas giving access to sleeping rooms. 
Smoke detectors may be battery operated until August 1, 1983, at which time the
smoke detectors shall be located and permanently wired as required by CBC
Section 907.2.11.	Nothing in this Section shall be construed to waive a
requirement to install permanently wired smoke detectors, which were required at
the time the original building permit for the building was issued.
