                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GROUP E OCCUPANCIES. (§ 91.8602)

  GROUP E OCCUPANCIES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8602.1.  Scope.  This section
shall apply to every lawfully existing Group E Occupancy housed in a building
constructed prior to July 1, 1961.91.8602.2.  Certificate of
Occupancy.91.8602.2.1.  Revocation.  The Certificate of Occupancy for any
lawfully existing Group E Occupancy housed in a building constructed prior to
July 1, 1961, may be revoked by the Department as follows if, upon inspection,
the building is found in violation of requirements of this section:	1.	If the
violations, defects or hazards found to be existing therein are immediately
dangerous to the public health, safety or general welfare, and if effective
repair is not commenced within 180 days after the issuance of an order to do so
by the Department; or	2.	If the violations, defects or hazards found to be
existing therein are not of such a nature as described hereinabove, and
effective repair is not commenced within five years after the issuance of an
order to do so by the Department.91.8602.2.2.  Issuance.  A new Certificate of
Occupancy shall be issued for any lawfully existing Group E Occupancy housed in
a building constructed prior to July 1, 1961, if such building is either made to
comply with all of the requirements of this division, or is made to comply with
the requirements of Sections 91.8602.6, 91.8602.7 and 91.8602.8.91.8602.3. 
Other Laws.  Except as otherwise specifically provided for herein, this section
does not repeal, alter or modify any other provisions of this Code.91.8602.4. 
Violation.  It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit the use of any
building for a Group E Occupancy:91.8602.4.1.  After a Certificate of Occupancy
has been revoked in accordance with the provisions of Section 91.8602.2 after
July 1, 1961;91.8602.4.2.  In any case where a Certificate of Occupancy has not
been issued, unless the building is constructed in full conformity with all
other applicable provisions of this Code; or91.8602.4.3.  Unless such building
is constructed, operated, used and maintained as required by this
section.91.8602.5.  Alternate Methods.  The Department may, after referral to
and report from the Fire Department, approve alternate methods of obtaining the
equivalent fire protection and safety required by this section, provided the
Department finds that the existing condition of the building under consideration
makes strict conformity impracticable and that such alternate methods are within
the purpose and intent of this section.91.8602.6.  One-story Buildings. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  One-story buildings
shall conform to the requirements of this section and C.B.C. Section
305.1.91.8602.7.  Buildings Over One Story.91.8602.7.1.  Type V buildings two
stories or more in height shall not be used to house unless such buildings are
completely sprinklered.	EXCEPTION:  Complete sprinklers are not required where
the Group E Occupancy is only in the first story of a two-story building and the
Group E Occupancy conforms to the requirements of a one-story building as set
forth in this section.91.8602.7.2.  Every building over one story in height
shall have sprinklers installed in all hallways, stair shafts, stairways,
basements, laboratory and vocational rooms, and other usable areas not
customarily used for class, toilet or assembly purposes.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	The
Department may, after referral to and report from the Fire Department, modify
the above requirement, provided it is first found that equivalent alternate
safety measures are provided.	2.	Sprinklers may be omitted, provided every room
used for instruction purposes or assembly is provided with exits giving direct
egress to the exterior of the building.	3.	Covered walkways complying with the
requirements of Section 91.409 and balconies need not be
sprinklered.91.8602.7.3.  A sprinkler system required under the provisions of
this part shall be electrically interconnected to the building fire alarm
system.91.8602.8 General.91.8602.8.1.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff.
8/8/11.)  All requirements of this Code with respect to exits shall be complied
with. 	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	The provisions of CBC Section 708 which require shaft
enclosures need not be complied with, provided the provisions of this Section
are met. 	2.	Every boiler using liquid or solid fuel shall be housed in a
boiler room separated from the remainder of the building by two-hour
fire-resistive construction with openings protected by a fire assembly having a
one-and-one-half-hour fire-resistive rating.	3.	Every boiler using fuel gas
shall be housed in a boiler room separated from the rest of the building by
one-hour fire-resistive construction with openings protected by a fire assembly
having a one-hour fire-resistive rating.	4.	Each gas piping system serving a
Group E Occupancy shall be provided with a gas shutoff valve designed to close
the flow of gas to the piping system and a label designating such valve.  The
label shall be of corrosion-resistant metal with letters at least three inches
high, stating:  “GAS SHUT-OFF VALVE”.	5.	Any fire-warning system required
to be installed by the Los Angeles Fire Department pursuant to the provisions of
Article 7, Chapter V of the Municipal Code shall meet the requirements of
Article 760 of the California Electrical Code adopted by the City of Los
Angeles.
