                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 91.8803)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	For purposes of
this division, the applicable definitions in CBC Sections 1602 and 1613 and the
following shall apply:	ESSENTIAL BUILDING is any building housing a hospital or
other medical facility having surgery or emergency treatment areas, fire or
police stations, municipal government disaster operation and communication
centers.	HIGH-RISK BUILDING is any building not classified as an essential
building having an occupant load, as determined by CBC Section 1004.1, of 100
occupants or more.	EXCEPTION:  A high-risk building shall not include the
following:	1.	Any building having exterior walls braced with masonry cross walls
or wood-frame cross walls spaced less than 40 feet (12 192 mm) apart in each
story. Cross walls shall be full-story height with a minimum length of 1 1/2
times the story height.	2.	Any building used for its intended purpose, as
determined by the Department, for less than 20 hours per week.	HISTORICAL
BUILDING is any building designated as an historical building by an appropriate
federal, state or City jurisdiction.	LOW-RISK BUILDING is any building not
classified as an essential building having an occupant load as determined by CBC
Section 1004.1 of less than 20 occupants.	MEDIUM-RISK BUILDING is any building
not classified as a high-risk building or an essential building having an
occupant load as determined by CBC Section 1004.1 of 20 occupants or
more.	UNREINFORCED MASONRY BEARING WALL is a masonry wall having all the
following characteristics:	1.	Provides the vertical support for a floor or
roof.	2.	The total superimposed load is over 100 pounds per linear foot (1.5
kN/m).	3.	The area of reinforcing steel is less than 50 percent of that required
by CBC Section 2106.1.
