                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ANALYSIS AND DESIGN. (§ 91.9604)

  ANALYSIS AND DESIGN.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,261, Eff. 8/30/96.)91.9604.1.  Wall Panel Anchorage. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  Concrete and masonry walls shall
be anchored to all floors and roofs which provide lateral support for the
wall.  The anchorage shall provide a positive direct connection between the
wall and floor or roof construction capable of resisting a horizontal force
equal to 30 percent of the tributary wall weight for all buildings, and 45
percent of the tributary wall weight for essential buildings, or a minimum force
of 250 pounds per linear foot of wall, whichever is greater.	EXCEPTION:  Using
75 percent of the design force as specified in Section 12.11 of ASCE 7 and
completely in compliance with all the requirements as specified in that Section
is considered equivalent to the requirements specified in this Section and
Section 91.9604.2 of this Code.	The required anchorage shall be based on the
tributary wall panel assuming simple supports at floors and roof.	EXCEPTION: 
An alternate design may be approved by the Superintendent of Building when
justified by well established principles of mechanics.91.9604.2.  Special
Requirements for Wall Anchors and Continuity Ties.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  The steel elements of the wall anchorage systems and
continuity ties shall be designed by the allowable stress design method using a
load factor of 1.7.  The 1/3 stress increase permitted by CBC Section
1605.3.1.1 shall not be permitted for materials using allowable stress design
methods.	The strength design specified in CBC Section 1912, using a load factor
of 2.0 in lieu of 1.4 for earthquake loading, shall be used for the design of
embedment in concrete.	Wall anchors shall be provided to resist out-of-plane
forces, independent of existing shear anchors.	EXCEPTION:  Existing
cast-in-place shear anchors may be used as wall anchors if the tie element can
be readily attached to the anchors and if the engineer or architect can
establish tension values for the existing anchors through the use of approved
as-built plans or testing, and through analysis showing that the bolts are
capable of resisting the total shear load while being acted upon by the maximum
tension force due to seismic loading.  Criteria for analysis and testing shall
be determined by the Superintendent of Building.	Expansion anchors are not
allowed without special approval of the Superintendent of Building.  Attaching
the edge of plywood sheathing to steel ledgers is not considered as complying
with the positive anchoring requirements of the Code; and attaching the edge of
steel decks to steel ledgers is not considered as providing the positive
anchorage of this Code unless testing and analysis are performed, which
establish shear values for the attachment perpendicular to the edge of the
deck.91.9604.3.  Development of Anchor Loads into the Diaphragm.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  Development of anchor loads into roof and
floor diaphragms shall comply with Section 91.1615.4 and Section 12.11 of ASCE
7.	EXCEPTION:  If continuously tied girders are present, then the maximum
spacing of the continuity ties is the greater of the girder spacing or 24 feet
(7315 mm).	In wood diaphragms, anchorage shall not be accomplished by use of toe
nails or nails subject to withdrawal, nor shall wood ledgers, top plates or
framing be used in cross-grain bending or cross-grain tension.  The continuous
ties required by Section 91.1615.4 and Section 12.11 of ASCE 7 shall be in
addition to the diaphragm sheathing.	Lengths of development of anchor loads in
wood diaphragms shall be based on existing field nailing of the sheathing unless
existing edge nailing is positively identified on the original construction
plans or at the site.	At reentrant corners, continuity collectors may be
required for existing return walls not designed as shear walls, to develop into
the diaphragm a force equal to the lesser of the rocking or shear capacity of
the return wall, or the tributary shear but not exceeding the capacity of the
diaphragm.  Shear anchors for the return wall shall be commensurate with the
collector force.  If a truss or beam other than rafters or purlins is supported
by the return wall or by a column integral with the return wall, an independent
secondary column is required to support the roof or floor members whenever
rocking or shear capacity of the return wall is governing.91.9604.4.  Anchorage
at Pilasters.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.) 
Anchorage of pilasters shall be designed for the tributary wall anchoring load
per Section 91.9604.1 of this Code, considering the wall as a two-way slab. 
The edge of the two-way slab shall be considered “fixed” when there is
continuity at pilasters, and considered “pinned” at roof or floor levels. 
The pilasters or the walls immediately adjacent to the pilasters shall be
anchored directly to the roof framing such that the existing vertical anchor
bolts at the top of the pilasters are by-passed without causing tension or shear
failure at the top of the pilasters.	EXCEPTION:  If existing vertical anchor
bolts at the top of the pilasters are used for the anchorage, then additional
exterior confinement shall be provided.	The minimum anchorage at a floor or roof
between the pilasters shall be that specified in Section 91.9604.1 of this
Code.91.9604.5.  Symmetry.  Symmetry of connectors in the anchorage system is
required.  Eccentricity may be allowed when it can be shown that all components
of forces are positively resisted and justified by calculations or
tests.91.9604.6.  Minimum Roof Member Size.  Wood members used to develop
anchorage forces to the diaphragm shall be of minimum three-inch nominal width
for new construction and replacement.  All such members must be designed for
gravity and earthquake forces as part of the wall anchorage system.  For
existing structural members, the allowable stresses shall be without the 1/3
stress increase per Section 91.9604.2.91.9604.7.  Combination of Anchor
Types.  To repair and retrofit existing buildings, a combination of different
anchor types of different behavior or stiffness shall not be permitted.  The
capacity of the new and existing connectors cannot be added.91.9604.8. 
Prohibited Anchors.  Usage of connectors that were bent or stretched from the
intended use shall be prohibited.91.9604.9.  Crack and Damage Repairs,
Evaluation of Existing Structural Alterations.  The engineer or architect shall
report any observed structural conditions and structural damage that have
imminent life safety effects on the buildings and recommend repairs.  This
includes alterations such as openings cut in existing wall panels without a
building permit.  Evaluations and repairs shall be reviewed and approved by the
Department.91.9604.10.  Miscellaneous.  Existing mezzanines relying on the
concrete or masonry walls for vertical or lateral support shall be anchored to
the walls for the tributary mezzanine load.  Walls depending on the mezzanine
for lateral support shall be anchored per Sections 91.9604.1, 91.9604.2 and
91.9604.3 of this Code.
	EXCEPTION:  Existing mezzanines that have independent lateral and vertical
support need not be anchored to the concrete or masonry walls.	Existing interior
masonry or concrete walls not designed as shear walls, which extend to the floor
above or to the roof diaphragm shall also be anchored for out-of-plane forces
per Section 91.9604.1, 91.9604.2 and 91.9604.3 of this Code.  In the in-plane
direction, the walls may be isolated or shall be developed into the diaphragm
for a lateral force equal to the lesser of the rocking or shear capacity of the
wall, or the tributary shear but not exceeding the diaphragm
capacity.91.9604.11.  Historical Buildings.  Qualified historical buildings
shall be permitted to use alternate building standards or deviations from this
division in order to preserve their original or restored architectural elements
and features.  See Division 84 for these alternatives.
