                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 91.9202)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,259, Eff. 8/30/96.)	For the purpose of this division, in
addition to the applicable definitions, symbols and notations in this Code,
certain additional terms are defined as follows:	ADHESIVE ANCHOR is a fastener
placed in hardened concrete or masonry that derives its holding strength from a
chemical adhesive compound placed between the wall of the hole and the embedded
portion of the anchor.	ANCHOR SIDE PLATE is a metal plate or plates used to
connect a sill plate to the side of a concrete or masonry stem wall.	CRIPPLE
WALL is a wood-framed stud wall extending from the top of the foundation to the
underside of the lowest floor framing.	EXPANSION ANCHOR is a mechanical fastener
placed in hardened concrete or assembled masonry, designed to expand in a
self-drilled or pre-drilled hole of a specified size and engage the sides of the
hole in one or more locations to develop shear and/or tension resistance to
applied loads without grout, adhesive or drypack.	PERIMETER FOUNDATION is a
foundation system which is located under the exterior walls of a
building.	SNUG-TIGHT is as tight as an individual can torque a nut on a bolt by
hand using a wrench with a 10-inch (254 mm) long handle and the point at which
the full surface of the plate washer is contacting the wood member and slightly
indents the wood surface.	UNREINFORCED MASONRY includes adobe, burned clay,
concrete or sand-lime brick, hollow clay or concrete block, hollow clay tile,
rubble, cut stone and unburned clay masonry walls in which the area of
reinforcement is less than 50 percent of the minimum steel ratios required for
reinforced masonry.
