                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR A LIMITED STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS. (§ 91.9512)

  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR A LIMITED STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,260, Eff. 8/30/96.)91.9512.1.  Structures conforming to
the requirements of this section may be shown to be in conformance with this
division by submission of the report described in this section.91.9512.2. 
Required Features of the Building.  The building shall conform to all of the
following features, or the building shall be analyzed as prescribed by Section
91.9508.4 of this Code.	1.	The lateral load resisting elements of the building
shall be reinforced concrete shear walls.	2.	The minimum ratio of area of
reinforcement to gross area of the wall shall be 0.0015 in both the vertical and
horizontal directions.	3.	The reinforced concrete elements shall have no visible
deterioration of concrete or reinforcement.	4.	The area of concrete shear walls
on each orthogonal axis at the first floor level shall be 1.5 n percent of the
area of the first floor of the building, where n is the number of floor and roof
levels.	5.	The area of the shear walls in all stories above the first floor
shall not be more than 100 percent or less than 80 percent of the area of shear
walls at the first floor.	6.	The concrete shear walls in all stories above the
first floor shall be directly above the shear walls at the first floor which are
used to calculate the percent of shear wall area to floor area.	7.	The wall area
must be uniformly distributed such that at least 80 percent of the wall area
used in the calculation is symmetrically placed about the center of the
building.	8.	The area of the shear walls on each orthogonal axis shall be
calculated by passing a horizontal plane through the first story level.  The
height of the plane shall be that height where the area of the shear walls is a
minimum.	9.	The ratio of total height to base width of cantilevered or coupled
shear walls shall be two or less.  The ratio of the clear height to inplane
depth of piers in a shear wall shall be two or less.  Shear walls or piers
having a height to depth ratio greater than two shall be given an effective area
of one-half of their area.91.9512.3.  Information Required in the
Report.91.9512.3.1.  The report shall include data, sketches, plans and
calculations that show conformance with the features given in this
section.91.9512.3.2.  The engineer shall meet with the representative of the
Department at the site to review the report.
