                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ANALYSIS AND DESIGN. (§ 91.9305)

  ANALYSIS AND DESIGN.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,018, Eff. 5/21/98.)91.9305.1.  General.  Every
building within the scope of this division shall be analyzed, designed and
constructed in conformance with this Code except as modified herein.  No
alteration of the existing lateral force-resisting or vertical load-carrying
system shall reduce the strength or stiffness of the existing structure. When
any portion of a building within the scope of this division is constructed on or
into a slope steeper than 1 unit vertical in 3 units horizontal, the
lateral-force-resisting system  at and below the base level diaphragm shall
also comply with the provisions of Division 94 of this Code.91.9305.2. 
Scope.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  This
Division requires the alteration, repair, replacement or addition of structural
elements and their connections to meet the strength and stiffness requirements
of this Code.  The lateral load path analysis shall include the resisting
elements and connections from the wood diaphragm above any soft, weak or open
front wall lines to the foundation soil interface or reinforced concrete slab or
masonry wall supporting elements below.  The top story of any building need not
be analyzed.  The lateral load path analysis for added structural elements
shall also include evaluation of the allowable soil bearing and lateral
pressures in accordance with Section 1804.	EXCEPTION:  When an open front, weak
or soft wall line exists due to parking at the ground level of a two-level
building and the parking area is less than 20 percent of the ground floor level,
then only the wall lines in the open, weak or soft directions of the enclosed
parking area, need comply with the provisions of this division.91.9305.3. 
Design Base Shear.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)  The design base shear shall be 75 percent of the value from Section
12.8.1 of ASCE 7.91.9305.4.  Vertical Distribution of Forces.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The total seismic force shall
be distributed over the height of the structure based on Formulas (12.8-11) and
(12.8-12) in Section 12.8.3 of ASCE 7.  Distribution of force by story weight
shall be permitted for two story buildings. The value of R used in the design of
any story shall be less than or equal to the value of R used in the given
direction for the story above.91.9305.5.  Weak Story Limitation.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The structure shall not exceed
30 feet in height or two levels if the lower level strength is less than 65
percent of the story above.  Existing walls shall be strengthened as required
to comply with this provision unless the weak level can resist a total lateral
seismic force of Ωo (per Section 91.9305.3) times the design force prescribed
in Section 91.9305.4.	The story strength for each level of all other structures
shall be a minimum of 80 percent of the story above.91.9305.6.  Story Drift
Limitation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The
calculated story drift for each retrofitted level shall not exceed the allowable
deformation compatible with all vertical load resisting elements and 0.005 or
0.04/R (per Section 9305.3) times the story height.  The calculated story drift
shall not be reduced by the effects of horizontal diaphragm stiffness but shall
be increased when these effects produce rotation.	The effects of rotation and
soil stiffness shall be included in the calculated story drift when lateral
loads are resisted by vertical elements whose required depth of embedment is
determined by pole formulas such as Equation (18-1), (18-2) and (18-3) in
Section 91.1805.7.2.1.  The coefficient of variation of subgrade reaction used
in the deflection calculations shall be provided from an approved geotechnical
engineering report or other approved methods.91.9305.7.  P-Delta Effect. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The requirements
of Section 12.8.7 of ASCE 7 shall apply except as modified here.  All framing
elements not required by the design to be part of the lateral force resisting
system shall be investigated and shown to be adequate for vertical load carrying
capacity when displaced Ωo (per Section 91.9305.3) times the displacements
resulting from the required lateral force.  The stress analysis of cantilever
columns shall use a buckling factor of 2.1 for the direction normal to the axis
of the beam.91.9305.8.  Ties and Continuity.  All parts of the structure
included in the scope of Section 91.9305.2 shall be interconnected and the
connection shall be capable of resisting the seismic force created by the parts
being connected.  Any smaller portion of a building shall be tied to the
remainder of the building with elements having a strength of 0.1833 times the
tributary dead load of the smaller portion.  A positive connection for
resisting a horizontal force acting parallel to the member shall be provided
for  each beam, girder or truss included in the lateral load path.  This force
shall not be less than 0.08 times the combined tributary dead and live loads or
as required by the lateral load path transfer, whichever is greater.91.9305.9. 
Collector Elements.  Collector elements shall be provided which can transfer 
the seismic forces originating in other portions of the building to the elements
within the scope of Section 91.9305.2 that provide resistance to those
forces.91.9305.10.  Horizontal Diaphragms.  The analysis of shear demand or
capacity of an existing plywood or diagonally sheathed horizontal diaphragm need
not be investigated unless the diaphragm is required to transfer lateral forces
from the lateral resisting elements above the diaphragm to other lateral
resisting elements below the diaphragm due to offset in placement of the
elements.	Wood diaphragms in structures that support floors or roofs above shall
not be allowed to transmit lateral forces by rotation or cantilever. However,
rotational effects shall be accounted for when unsymmetric wall stiffness
increases shear demands.	EXCEPTION:  Diaphragms that cantilever 25 percent or
less of the distance between lines of lateral load resisting elements from which
the diaphragm cantilevers may transmit their shears by cantilever provided that
rotational effects on shear walls parallel and perpendicular to the load are
accounted for.91.9305.11.  Shear Walls.  Shear walls shall have sufficient
strength and stiffness to resist the tributary seismic loads  and shall conform
to the special requirements of this section.91.9305.11.1.  Gypsum or Plaster
Products.  Gypsum or plaster products shall not be used to provide lateral
resistance.91.9305.11.2.  Wood Structural Panels.91.9305.11.2.1.  Drift
Limit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  Wood
structural panel shear walls shall meet the story drift limitation of Section
91.9305.7.  Conformance to the story drift limitation shall be determined by
approved testing or calculation or analogies drawn from there and not the use of
an aspect ratio.  Calculated deflection shall be in accordance with Division 23
of this code, “Calculation of Shear Wall Deflection” and 25 percent shall be
added to account for inelastic action and repetitive loading.  Contribution to
the deflection from the anchor or tie down slippage shall also be included. 
The slippage contribution shall include the vertical elongation of the metal,
the vertical slippage of the connectors and compression or shrinkage of the wood
elements.  The vertical slippage shall be multiplied by the aspect ratio and
added to the total horizontal deflection.  Individual shear panels shall be
permitted to exceed the maximum aspect ratio provided the story drift and
allowable shear capacities are not exceeded.91.9305.11.2.2.  Openings. 
Openings are permitted in shear walls if they do not exceed 50 percent of the
height or width of the shear wall. The remaining portion of the shear wall shall
be strengthened for the transfer and increase of all shearing forces caused by
the opening. The resulting shear wall shall be analyzed as a mosaic of shear
resisting elements. Blocking and steel strapping shall be employed at the
corners of the opening to transfer forces from discontinuous boundary elements
into adjoining panel elements.	The effect of openings on the stiffness of the
shear wall shall be demonstrated to comply with the requirements of Section
91.9305.6. The stiffness shall be calculated using the properties of the
different shear elements making up the shear wall or it shall be demonstrated by
approved testing. When shear walls cannot be made to conform to the requirements
of this section because of existing openings, the openings shall be relocated or
reduced in width to meet the strength and stiffness requirements of the lateral
loads.	Relocated and altered openings shall comply with the emergency escape
requirements in Division 10 of this Code.  Relocated and altered openings shall
comply with the light and ventilation requirements in Division 12 of this Code
unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent of Building.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)91.9305.11.2.3.  Wood Species of
Framing Members.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.) 
Allowable shear values for wood structural panels shall consider the species of
the framing members.  When the allowable shear values are based on Douglas
fir-larch framing members and framing members are constructed of other species
of lumber, the allowable shear values shall be determined in accordance with
Division 23 of this Code.91.9305.11.3.  Mechanical Penetrations.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 174,829, Eff. 10/27/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)  Mechanical penetrations in
shear walls that exceed the provisions of Division 23 of this Code shall be
accounted for in the design or the shear wall shall be analyzed as two separate
walls on each side of the penetration.91.9305.11.4.  Substitution for 3 inch
Nominal Width Framing Members.  Two 2 inch nominal width framing members shall
be permitted in lieu of any required 3 inch nominal width framing member when
the existing and new framing member are of equal dimensions, are connected as
required to transfer the in-plane shear between them and the sheathing fasteners
are equally divided between them.91.9305.11.5.  Hold Down
Connectors.91.9305.11.5.1.  Expansion Anchors in Tension.  Expansion anchors
that provide tension strength by friction resistance shall not be used to
connect hold down devices to existing concrete or masonry elements.  Expansion
anchors shall be permitted to provide tension strength by
bearing.91.9305.11.5.2.  Required Depth of Embedment.  The required depth of
embedment or edge distance for the anchor used in the hold down connector shall
be provided in the concrete or masonry below any plain concrete slab unless
satisfactory evidence is submitted to the Department that shows that the
concrete slab and footings are of monolithic construction.91.9305.11.5.3. 
Required Preload of Bolted Hold Down Connectors.  Bolted hold down connectors
shall be preloaded to reduce slippage of the connector.  Preloading shall
consist of tightening the nut on the tension anchor after the placement but
before the tightening of the shear bolts in the panel flange member.  The
tension anchor shall be tightened until the shear bolts are in firm contact with
the edge of the hole nearest the direction of the tension anchor. Hold down
connectors with self-jigging bolt standoffs shall be installed in a manner to
permit preloading.
