                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

QUALITY CONTROL. (§ 91.9205)

  QUALITY CONTROL.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,259, Eff. 8/30/96.)91.9205.1.  Inspection by the
Department.  All work shall be subject to inspection by the Superintendent of
Building including, but not limited to:	1.	Placement and installation of new 
adhesive or expansion anchors or  anchor side plates installed in existing
foundations.	2.	Placement of required blocking and framing
anchors.	3.	Installation and nailing of new cripple wall bracing.	The torque
testing of sill plate anchors per Section 91.9204.3.1 shall be performed by the
building inspector.91.9205.2.  Special Inspection.  Special inspection is not
required for sill plate anchors installed in existing foundations regulated by
the provisions of this division.  Any work may be subject to special inspection
when required by the Superintendent of Building or when so designated by the
architect or engineer of record.91.9205.3.  Structural Observation.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  Structural observation is
not required for work done under the prescriptive provisions of this division. 
When construction documents for strengthening are prepared by an architect or
engineer and alternate materials or methods are used, structural observation
shall be provided as required in CBC Section 1709.91.9205.4.  Engineer’s or
Architect’s Statement.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)  When an alternative design is provided per LAMC Section 91.9201.3,
the responsible engineer or architect shall place the following statement on the
approved plans:	1.	“I am responsible for this building’s seismic
strengthening design for the underfloor cripple walls and sill bolting in
compliance with the minimum seismic resistance standards of Division 92 of the
Los Angeles Building Code.”	or when applicable:	2.	“The Registered Deputy
Inspector, required as a condition of the use of structural design stresses
requiring continuous inspection, will be responsible to me as required by
Section 91.1704 of the Los Angeles Building Code.”TABLE 92-A
SILL PLATE ANCHORAGE AND CRIPPLE WALL BRACING 1,2,3
  
    
      
        Number of Stories above Cripple Walls
      
      
        Minimum Sill Plate Connection and Maximum Spacing
      
      
        Amount of Wall Bracing
      
    
    
      
        One Story
      
      
        Adhesive or expansion anchors shall be 1/2-inch (12.7 mm) minimum
diameter spaced at six feet (1829 mm) maximum center to center.
      
      
        Each end and not less than 50% of the wall length.
      
    
    
      
        Two Story
      
      
        Adhesive or expansion anchors shall be 1/2-inch (12.7 mm) minimum
diameter spaced at four feet (1219 mm) maximum center to center; or 5/8 inch
(15.9 mm) spaced at six feet maximum center to center.
      
      
        Each end and not less than 70% of the wall length.
      
    
    
      
        Three Story
      
      
        Adhesive or expansion anchors shall be 1/2- inch minimum (12.7 mm)
diameter spaced at two feet eight inches (813 mm) maximum center to center; or
5/8-inch minimum (15.9 mm) diameter spaced at four feet (1219 mm) maximum center
to center.
      
      
        100% of the wall length.
      
    
  
	1.	Plate washers for use with adhesive or expansion anchors shall be two-inch
(51 mm) by two- inch (51 mm) by 3/16-inch (4.8 mm) for 1/2-inch (12.7 mm)
diameter anchors and 2-1/2-inch (64 mm) by 2-1/2-inch (64 mm) by 1/4-inch (6 mm)
for 5/8 inch (15.9 mm) diameter anchors.	2.	Existing sill plate anchor bolts
shall be permitted to provide all or a portion of the sill plate connection
requirement if:	a.	the anchor bolt is cast in concrete and in sound condition,
and:	b.	the diameter size and maximum spacing meets or exceeds the requirements
of Table 92-A, and:	c.	a new plate washer conforming to footnote 1 is installed,
and:	d.	the sill plate is connected to a snug tight condition and torque tested
per Section 91.9204.3.1.	3.	Anchor side plates shall be permitted when
conditions prevent anchor installation vertically through the sill plate.
