                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION. (§ 91.9306)

  MATERIALS OF CONSTRUCTION.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,018, Eff. 5/21/98.)91.9306.1.  New Materials.  All
materials approved by this Code, including their appropriate allowable stresses
and minimum aspect ratios, shall be permitted to meet the requirements of this
division.91.9306.2.  Allowable Foundation and Lateral Pressures.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  Allowable foundation and
lateral pressures shall be permitted to use the values from CBC Table 1804.2. 
The coefficient of variation of subgrade reaction shall be established by an
approved geotechnical engineering report or other approved methods when used in
the deflection calculations of embedded vertical elements as required in LAMC
Section 91.9305.6.91.9306.3.  Existing Materials.  All existing materials
shall be in sound condition and constructed in conformance to this Code before
they can be used to resist the lateral loads prescribed in this division.  The
verification of existing material conditions and their conformance to these
requirements, shall be made by physical observation reports, material testing or
record drawings as determined by the structural designer and approved by the
Department.91.9306.3.1.  Horizontal Wood Diaphragms.  Existing horizontal wood
diaphragms that require analysis under Section  91.9305.10 shall be permitted
to use Table 88-H of this code for their allowable values.91.9306.3.2.  Wood
Structural Panel Shear Walls.91.9306.3.2.1.  Allowable Nail Slip Values. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  When the required
drift calculations of LAMC Section 91.9305.11.2.1 rely on the lower slip values
for common nails or surfaced dry lumber, their use in construction shall be
verified by exposure.  The use of box nails and unseasoned lumber may be
assumed without exposure.  The verification of surfaced dry lumber shall be by
identification conforming to Division 23 of this Code.91.9306.3.2.2.  Reduction
for Clipped Nail Heads.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)  When exposed nails do not meet the nominal head sizes required for
hand driven nails in Division 23 of this Code, the allowable shear capacity for
wood structural panel shear walls shall be proportionately reduced.  The
reduction shall be a percentage of the reduction in the nail head area below the
required nail head area including tolerances.91.9306.3.2.3.  Plywood Panel
Construction.  When verification of the existing plywood materials is by use of
record drawings alone, the panel construction for plywood shall be assumed to be
of three plies.91.9306.3.2.4.  Framing Members of Other Species.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  When verification of the
existing wood material is by use of record drawings, the allowable shear
capacity shall be multiplied by the reduction factor of 0.82 for buildings built
on or after 1960.  Buildings built before this period shall use the reduction
factor 0.65.  When verification of the existing wood material is by
identification in conformance to Division 23 of this Code, the allowable shear
capacity shall be determined in accordance with LAMC Section
91.9305.11.2.3.91.9306.3.3.  Lumber.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff.
12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  When the existing dimensioned lumber is not
identified in conformance to Division 23 of this Code, the allowable stresses
shall be permitted for the structural elements specified below.
	Posts and Beams	Douglas Fir-larch No. 1
	Joists and Rafters	Douglas Fir-larch No. 2
	Studs, Blocking	Hem Fir Stud.91.9306.3.4.  Structural Steel.  All existing
structural steel shall be permitted to use the allowable stresses for Grade
A36.  Existing pipe or tube columns shall be assumed to be of minimum wall
thickness unless verified by testing or exposure.91.9306.3.5.  Strength of
Concrete.  All existing concrete footings shall be permitted to use the
allowable stresses for plain concrete with a compressive strength of 2,000 psi.
The strength of existing concrete with a record compressive strength greater
than 2,000 psi shall be verified by testing, record drawings or Department
records.91.9306.3.6.  Existing Sill Plate Anchorage.  Existing cast-in-place
anchor bolts shall be permitted to use the allowable service loads for bolts
with proper embedment when used for shear resistance to lateral loads.
