                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SIMPLIFIED ANALYSIS PROCEDURE. (§ 91.9511)

  SIMPLIFIED ANALYSIS PROCEDURE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,260, Eff. 8/30/96.)91.9511.1.  General.  Structures
conforming to the requirements of this section may be analyzed for having a
required strength by a simplified analysis procedure.91.9511.2.  Required
Features of the Building.  The building shall conform to all of the following
features, or the building shall be analyzed by the Equivalent Lateral Force
procedure or the Dynamic Lateral Force procedure as prescribed by Section
91.9508.4 of this Code.	1.	The lateral resisting elements of the building shall
be reinforced concrete shear walls or frames with solid masonry infills and
infills which have openings in the masonry infills not exceeding 10 percent of
the gross area of the infill panel which has the opening(s).	2.	The effective
shear area of reinforced concrete shear walls on each orthogonal axis shall be
calculated by passing a horizontal plane through each story level.  The height
of the plane shall be that height where the area of the shear walls is a
minimum.	3.	The reinforced concrete elements shall have no visible deterioration
of concrete or reinforcement.	4.	The vertical elements in the lateral-load
resisting system shall not have significant strength discontinuities; the story
strength in any story shall not be less than 90 percent of the strength of the
story above.	5.	The lateral-force resisting elements in all story levels shall
form a system that is not subject to significant torsion.  Significant torsion
is the condition where the distance between the story center of rigidity and the
story center of mass is greater than 20 percent of the width of the structure in
the corresponding plan dimension.	6.	The minimum ratio of area of reinforcement
to gross area of wall in existing reinforced concrete shear walls shall be
0.0015 in both the vertical and horizontal direction or the minimum ratio of
axial reinforcement in the columns of frames containing infills shall be
0.01.	7.	The ratio of total height to base length of cantilevered or coupled
shear walls shall be two or less.  The ratio of clear height to in-plane depth
of piers in a shear wall shall be two or less.  Shear walls or piers having a
height to in-plane depth ratio greater than two shall be given an effective
shear area of one-half of their area.	8.	All concrete frames with infilled
panels conforming to Item 1 above shall have total height to base length ratios
of two to one or less.91.9511.3.  Analysis Procedure.91.9511.3.1.  General. 
Supplemental elements may be added to the existing building to bring the
structure into conformance with Section 91.9511.2.91.9511.3.2.  Seismic
Loading.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  The
seismic loading shall be calculated by Section 91.9510.2.  The loading of each
story level shall be calculated Formula (10-1) of Section
91.9510.4.91.9511.3.3.  Relative Rigidities.  The relative rigidity of
reinforced concrete shear walls may be based on the stiffness of uncracked
sections.  The relative rigidity of infill panels may be calculated using a
common modulus of elasticity.  Use of a combination of infills and reinforced
concrete or masonry shear walls on any orthogonal axis is
prohibited.91.9511.3.4.  Required Calculations.  The calculations may be
limited to computation of loads on the reinforced concrete shear walls or
infilled frame panels that comply with Section 91.9511.2 and computation of the
drag and tie forces that develop a complete load path.  The loads shall include
torsional effects.91.9511.4.  Required Strength of Systems and
Elements.91.9511.4.1.  The capacity of all parts of the structure shall exceed
the demand calculated by use of the loading specified in Section
91.9510.91.9511.4.2.  The strength of infilled frame systems used for
lateral-load resistance in this section shall be calculated using only the
infilled frames that conform to Item 1 of Section 91.9511.2.91.9511.5.  Shear
Stress Limit.91.9511.5.1.  The maximum horizontal shear stress in new and
existing reinforced concrete shear walls shall not exceed .  For the purpose of
this division, the horizontal shear stress may be taken as 80 psi (552 kPa)
without testing as required by Item A of Section 91.9509.6.91.9511.5.2.  The
in-plane shear stress in any masonry infilled panel shall not exceed 30 psi (207
kPa).  The calculation of shear stresses shall use net section area and only
the area of the infilled masonry.	EXCEPTION:  The in-plane strength of an
infill panel without openings may be calculated by procedures described in
published research that were verified by experimental testing and approved by
the Superintendent of Building.
