                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 91.9603)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	For the purposes of
this Division, the applicable definitions in Division 2, Sections 1602, 1613.2,
1902 and 2302 of this Code; Sections 1.2, 3.1.1, 4.1, 5.2, 6.2 and 11.2 of ASCE
7, and the following shall apply:	ANCHORAGE SYSTEM is the system of all
structural elements and connections, which support the concrete or masonry wall
in the lateral direction, including diaphragms and subdiaphragms, wall anchorage
and continuity or cross tie connectors in subdiaphragms and main
diaphragms.	COMMENCED CONSTRUCTION is construction pursuant to a valid building
permit that has progressed to the point that one of the called inspections as
required by the Department has been made and the work for which the inspection
has been called has been judged by the Department to be substantial and has been
approved by the Department.	EXISTING BUILDING is an erected building for which a
legal building permit and a certificate of occupancy have been issued.	FLEXIBLE
DIAPHRAGM is any diaphragm constructed of wood structural panel, diagonal or
straight wood sheathing, metal decking without a structural concrete topping, or
horizontal rod bracing.	HISTORICAL BUILDING is any building designated or
currently in the process of being designated as a historical building by an
appropriate federal, state or City jurisdiction.	REINFORCED CONCRETE WALL is a
concrete wall that has 50 percent or more of the reinforcing steel required for
reinforced concrete in Division 19 of this Code.	REINFORCED MASONRY WALL is a
masonry wall that has 50 percent or more of the reinforcing steel required by
Section 2.3 or Section 3.3 of ACI 530-05/ASCE 5-05/TMS 402-05 (MSJC).  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	RETROFIT is strengthening or structurally
improving the lateral force resisting system of an existing building by
alteration of existing or addition of new structural elements.	TILT-UP CONCRETE
WALL is a form of precast concrete panel construction either cast in the
horizontal position at the site and after curing, lifted and moved into place in
a vertical position, or cast off-site in a fabricator’s shop.
