                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PURPOSE. (§ 91.9601)

  PURPOSE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,261, Eff. 8/30/96.)	The purpose of this division is to
promote public safety and welfare by reducing the risk of death or injury that
may result from the effects of earthquakes on reinforced concrete and masonry
wall buildings with flexible diaphragms designed under the building codes in
effect prior to January 1, 1995. These buildings are potentially hazardous and
prone to significant damage, including possible collapse, in a moderate to major
earthquake. These structures typically shelter large numbers of persons and
property for retail, food markets, food distribution centers, warehousing,
aerospace, industrial/manufacturing and general business and office use. Their
continued use after an earthquake is also essential to the local economy and its
post-earthquake recovery.	The provisions of this division are minimum standards
for structural seismic resistance established primarily to reduce the risk of
loss of life or injury on both subject and adjacent properties and will not
necessarily prevent all earthquake damage to an existing building which complies
with these standards. This division shall not require existing electrical,
plumbing, mechanical or fire-safety systems to be altered unless they constitute
a hazard to life or property.	This division provides voluntary retrofit
standards for deficient wall anchorage systems on structures that are not
subject to the mandatory provisions of Division 91. When fully followed, these
standards will strengthen the portion of the structure that is most vulnerable
to earthquake damage.
