                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PURPOSE. (§ 91.9101)

  PURPOSE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 169,341, Eff. 2/4/94.)	The purpose of this division is to
promote public safety and welfare by reducing the risk of death or injury that
may result from the effects of earthquakes on tilt-up concrete wall buildings
designed under the building codes in effect prior to January 1, 1976.  Such
buildings have been categorized, based on past earthquakes, as being potentially
hazardous and prone to significant damage, including possible collapse, in a
moderate to major earthquake.	The provisions of this division are minimum
standards for structural seismic resistance established primarily to reduce the
risk of life loss or injury on both subject and adjacent properties and will not
necessarily prevent loss of life or injury or prevent earthquake damage to an
existing building which complies with these standards.  The requirement for
compliance with these standards does not preclude the utilization, at the
building owner’s option, of more extensive strengthening method that might
further prevent or limit loss of life or injury or building damage.  This
division shall not require existing electrical, plumbing, mechanical or
fire-safety systems to be altered unless they constitute a hazard to life or
property.	This division provides systematic procedures and standards for
identification and classification of tilt-up concrete wall building based on the
current use of the building.  Priorities, time periods, and standards are also
established under which these buildings are required to be structurally analyzed
and strengthened for seismic resistance.  Where the analysis determines
structural deficiencies, this division requires the building to be strengthened
or demolished.
