                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMIT FEES FOR REPAIR, REPLACEMENT, ALTERATION, OR MODIFICATION. (§ 92.0132)

  PERMIT FEES FOR REPAIR, REPLACEMENT, ALTERATION, OR MODIFICATION.	(a)	No
person shall cause or permit any repairs, replacements, alterations, or
modifications to any elevator or equipment regulated by this Code unless a
permit has first been obtained from the Department.	For the purposes of this
section, the term “alteration” shall include any work which entails the
installation or replacement of any of the mechanical devices or apparatus
specified in Subsection (d) or Notes A, B, C of this section and any
alterations, repairs and replacements listed in the California Code of
Regulations, Title 8, Section 3000(h).  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,861, Eff.
11/14/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)	(b)	The Department shall charge and collect the sum of
$26.00 for each inspection permit to do any work and the sum of $143.00 per hour
or any portion of an hour for the inspection of the work specified in Notes A,
B, C of this section and alterations, repairs and replacements listed in the
California Code of Regulations, Title 8, Sections 3000(h), 3141.0 and 3141.2, on
each particular elevator, escalator or dumbwaiter including lifts or moving
walks.  No repair, replacement, alteration or modification permit shall allow
any person to alter the type or design of the installation, and in the event
that the work is of a nature that would alter the type, design or purpose of the
installation, then a permit shall be obtained pursuant to the provisions of
Section 92.0129 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff.
10/22/09.)	(c)	Application for all such permits shall be made upon forms
provided by the Department.	(d)	The fee for any repairs, replacements,
alterations or modifications for which a permit is required, but for which no
fee is provided here, shall be as provided under Section 92.0129 or Section
92.0132(b) of this section.  (Former Subsec. (d) Deleted and Former Subsec. (e)
re-lettered (d) by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)	(e)	The fee for field
consultations will be $143.00 per hour or any fraction thereof.  (Former
Subsec. (f) re-lettered (e) and Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff.
10/22/09.)	NOTE A:  For the purpose of this section, the following shall be
considered alterations for electric elevators:	1.	Increase in rated load or
speed	2.	Increase in dead weight of car	3.	Increase or decrease in
travel	4.	Change in type of operation or control (including modification of fire
and emergency operation)	5.	Change in size or number of hoisting or
counterweight ropes	6.	Change in size or type of guide rails	7.	Replacement of
or change in type of car or counterweight safety	8.	Permissive use of freight
elevators to transport employees	9.	Change in classification from freight to
passenger service	10.	Change in power supply	11.	Replacement of an existing
driving machine by a new driving machine	12.	Replacement of an existing
controller by a new controller	13.	Replacement of an existing driving machine
brake by a new brake	14.	Replacement of hoistway doors	15.	Addition or
replacement of hoistway door locking devices or car door or gate electric
contact	16.	Addition of hoistway access switches	17.	Addition of top-of-car
operating devices	18.	Addition of hoistway door and/or car-door or gate
operating devices	19.	Addition of rope equalizers	20.	Addition of auxiliary
rope-fastening devices	21.	Addition of car-leveling or truck zoning
devices	22.	Addition of roller guide shoes	23.	Replacement of elevator
ropes	24.	Land Elevator	NOTE B:  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,861, Eff. 11/14/02,
Oper. 11/1/02.)  For the purpose of this section, the following shall be
considered alterations for hydro-electric elevators:	1.	Replacement of an
existing control valve with a valve of a different type;	2.	Replacement and
repair of existing relief and check valves;	3.	Replacement of existing supply
piping and fittings;	4.	Replacement of existing tanks;	5.	Replacement of
cylinder and/or plunger with a cylinder or plunger of different material, size
or design;	6.	Increase of working pressure;	7.	Earthquake restraints.	NOTE C: 
For the purpose of this section, replacements or additions to elevators,
escalators, dumbwaiters, inclined lifts and moving walks and other related
devices regulated by this Code beyond those necessary for normal maintenance
shall be considered alterations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,861, Eff. 11/14/02,
Oper. 11/1/02.)
