                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INSTALLATION PERMIT FEES. (§ 92.0129)

  INSTALLATION PERMIT FEES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,861, Eff. 11/14/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)	(a)	No person
shall install, construct or reconstruct any device regulated by this Code
without first obtaining a permit from the Department.	(b)	No person shall
perform any work in or on any existing elevator, dumbwaiter, escalator, moving
walk, inclined elevator, manlift, private residential elevator, private
residential inclined elevator, private residential inclined stairway chairlift,
private residential wheelchair lift, reciprocating conveyor, wheelchair lift and
inclined stairway chair lift and related devices regulated by this Code so as to
change its type, design or purpose to a different type, design or purpose
without first obtaining a permit from the Department.	(c)	(Amended by Ord. No.
180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)  The Department shall, before issuance of a
Certificate of Inspection, charge and collect a fee of $26.00 for each
installation permit.	The fees specified in this subsection shall be increased by
12.5% for all construction or work required to comply with Title 24, California
Administrative Code, Section 1-110, et seq., the state’s handicapped access
and adaptability requirements.	(d)	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff.
10/22/09.)  Upon completion of any of the work enumerated in this section for
which an installation permit has been issued, the Department shall inspect the
work and collect a fee of $143.00 for each hour or portion of an hour for each
acceptance inspection and issue a Certificate of Inspection, if and when the
work is found to comply with the requirements of this Code.	The fees specified
in this subsection shall be increased by 12.5% for all construction or work
required to comply with Title 24, California Administrative Code, Section 1-110,
et seq., the state’s handicapped access and adaptability
requirements.	(e)	Application for all permits shall be made upon forms provided
by the Department.	(f)	The fee for field consultations shall be $143.00 per hour
or any fraction of an hour.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)
