                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PRIVATE RESIDENCE ELEVATORS. (§ 92.0304)

  PRIVATE RESIDENCE ELEVATORS.	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,328, Eff. 12/10/07,
Oper. 1/1/08.)	All elevators in private residences shall comply with the
provisions of ASME A 17.1-2004 and this article.  Part 5, Section 5.3 of ASME
A17.1-2004 is adopted by reference, with the following exceptions and
modifications:  Sections 5.3.1.7.7, 5.3.1.8.1(a), 5.3.1.8.1(d), 5.3.1.18.4(a)
and 5.3.1.18.5 are not adopted.	(a)	Car Enclosure.  Except at entrances, cars
shall be enclosed on all sides and on the top.  The enclosure shall be
constructed of solid material, except openwork material may be provided for
ventilation.  When openwork material for ventilation is provided, it shall meet
the requirement of ASME A17.1-2004 Rule 204.2 c.	(b)	Car Doors and Gates.  A
car door, when closed, shall guard the full opening of the entrance to the
car.  Car doors or gates shall be of solid construction.  Scissors type gates
are prohibited.	(c)	Machine and Controls.  Machine and controls shall be
located as follows:	1.	Machines, controls and disconcerting means shall not be
mounted on cars, and shall be located outside of the hoistway in spaces
dedicated to the elevator equipment.	2.	The machine room shall have a head
clearance of at least seven feet, and shall be provided with permanent electric
lighting and a duplex receptacle rated at not less than 15A at 120V.	3.	Required
workspace clearance for elevator control and/or machinery spaces shall be
located entirely within the interior of the building. 	4.	Required car top and
pit emergency stop switches shall conform to Section 5.3.1.18.7 of ASME
A17.1-2004.
