                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL INSPECTIONS. (§ 93.0230)

  SPECIAL INSPECTIONS.	(a)	Off-Hours Inspection.  (Amended by Ord. No 166,524,
Eff. 1/29/91.)  The Department may, at its discretion, make emergency
inspections at other than normal working hours, upon the request of a permittee,
provided that additional fees are paid as specified in Section 98.0406 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.	(b)	Special Equipment.  (Amended by Ord. No
166,524, Eff. 1/29/91.)  The Department may inspect special equipment which is
exempt from approval as set forth in the Exceptions to Section 93.0402 upon
application therefor by the owner or lessee of the equipment.	The fees for a
special equipment inspection shall be charged at the rate as specified in
Section 98.0412(d) per hour for each inspector.  The fee required by this
subsection shall be in addition to the fees required elsewhere in this
Code.	(c)	Existing Buildings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 147,537, Eff. 9/15/75.) The
owner may apply for inspection of the electric wiring in an existing building.
The inspector shall notify the owner of any alterations necessary. A Certificate
of Inspection will be issued to the building owner when all applicable Electric
Code requirements are met. Fees for that inspection shall be paid as provided in
Subsection (b) of this section for Special Equipment Inspection.	Where a
reinspection is required in order to authorize the serving agency to reconnect
an existing service, an owner may apply for inspection in accordance with the
above. A fee equal to 50% of those specified m Subsection (b) of this section
shall be paid.
