                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CHANGE OF OCCUPANCIES. (§ 93.0111)

  CHANGE OF OCCUPANCIES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,828, Eff. 10/27/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)	(a)	Any building
or portion of a building in which there has been a change of occupancy, after
July 1, 1986, to one of the following occupancies, shall be wired in accordance
with this Code for that occupancy.  (See LAMC Section 91.8203.).	1.	Occupancies
defined by Division 500 of the C.E.C. or this Code as hazardous
locations.	2.	Occupancies defined in Article 1, Chapter IX of this Code, and
which are required by Article 7, Chapter V, of this Code or where the owner or
designer has installed a fire alarm system.	3.	Occupancies where the new
occupant load exceeds the original or previous value in the building.  The
occupant load is determined according to the provisions of this
Code.	4.	Occupancies where the proposed new load density exceeds that of the
original or previously used space.  Load density is determined based on the
load per square foot of area under consideration for the permit.	(b)	When the
Inspection or Engineering Bureau of the Department of Building and Safety
determines by field verification that the extent of the fire damage to a
building or structure exceeds the allowable percent as set by Section 91.8106 of
this Code, the electrical systems in the entire structure shall be reinstalled
to comply with the provisions of Chapter 3 of the C.E.C.  (See LAMC Section
91.8106.).	EXCEPTION:  The provisions of this section shall not require the
replacement of existing raceways, outlet boxes and similar electrical equipment
that are suitable for the location and occupancies involved.
