                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXCEPTIONS, PERMITS NOT REQUIRED. (§ 93.0202)

  EXCEPTIONS, PERMITS NOT REQUIRED.	(a)	No permit shall be required in the
following cases: (Amended by Ord. No. 172,593, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper.
7/1/99.)	1.	Electric wiring expressly declared to be exempt from the provisions
of this Code by any other sections of the Code or by any other provision of the
LAMC.	2.	Wiring for temporary theater sets on the theater stages or temporary
motion picture or television sets on any property belonging to or under the
control of the City of Los Angeles, privately owned studios, theaters, or
similar locations designed for that usage.	3.	Installation of any portable motor
or other portable appliance energized by means of a cord or cable having an
attachment plug end, when that cord or cable is permitted by this
Code.	4.	Repair or replacement of fixed motors or fixed appliances, supplied by
branch circuits not exceeding 20 amperes and not exceeding 240 volts nominal, of
the same type and rating in the same location where not located in an area
classed as “hazardous” under Article 500 of the C.E.C.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)	5.	Festive temporary decorative
lighting in dwelling occupancies only, for a period not to exceed 90 days. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,325, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	6.	Repair or
replacement of current-carrying parts of any switch, contactor or control
device. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,704, Eff. 1/27/01.)	7.	Reinstallation of
attachment plug receptacle, but not the outlets for it.	8.	Replacement of any
overcurrent device of the same rating and in the same location.	9.	Replacement
of gas tube electrodes, transformers, tubes, drivers and power supplies with the
same original manufactured parts having the same size, type, capacity and
ratings for electric signs, or luminaries.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,561, Eff.
3/22/11.)	10.	Taping of joints.	11.	Removal of electric wiring.	12.	Temporary
wiring for experimental purposes in suitable experimental laboratories.	13.	The
following electrical wiring:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,704, Eff.
1/27/01.)	(i)	Non-required signaling circuits supplied by an approved Class 2
limited power source, capable of supplying not more than 30 volts and 100
volt-amperes; and	(ii)	Non-required communication circuits which have the power
limited in accordance with Section 725-41 of the C.E.C.; and	(iii)	Non-required
amplifier output circuits which are permitted by Section 640-5 of the C.E.C. to
employ Class 2 or Class 3 wiring; and	(iv)	Any non-required circuit which
operates at 15 volts or less and does not generate, transmit, transform, utilize
or control more than 25 watts or volt-amperes of electric power.	Provided the
wiring for any of the above items is not located in any of the following
locations:	(i)	Area classified as “hazardous” under Article 500 of the
C.E.C.; or	(ii)	Non-required communication circuits which have the power limited
in accordance with Section 725.121 of the C.E.C.; and  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,561, Eff. 3/22/11.)	(iii)	Non-required amplifier output circuits which are
permitted by Section 640.9(C) of the C.E.C. to employ Class 2 or Class 3 wiring;
and  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,561, Eff. 3/22/11.)	(iv)	In a plenum, duct or
other space used for environmental air including access floors.	14.	Any similar
repair or replacement determined by the Department not to involve any hazard to
life or property.	15.	Repair or replacement of incandescent lighting fixtures in
single-family dwellings.	16.	Any electric wiring, except wiring located in an
area classified as “hazardous” under Article 500 of the C.E.C. after the
branch circuit distribution panelboards used exclusively to supply or
interconnect equipment installed, owned, operated or maintained by a
communication public utility and used exclusively for communication purposes, in
the exercise of its communication public utility functions within the
communication public utility controlled areas.	17.	The replacement of defective
smoke detectors in a single-family dwelling when the work is performed by a
contractor with a valid Certificate of Registration pursuant to Section
91.1705.  A Certificate of Compliance pursuant to Section 91.108.12 must be
filed with the City in lieu of a permit.	(b)	The provisions of the foregoing
exceptions shall not apply to any repairs or replacements of electrical devices,
apparatus, or appliances which were originally installed without a permit when
such permit is required for the original installation, or when energized by, or
which is a part of any hazardous or illegal wiring system.	(c)	The foregoing
exceptions from permit requirements shall not be deemed to allow any electric
wiring to be done in a manner contrary to other provision’s of this Code.
