                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES FOR MOTORS, TRANSFORMERS, HEATING APPLIANCES, STUDIO EFFECTS LIGHTING AND
MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT OR APPLIANCES. (§ 93.0216)

  FEES FOR MOTORS, TRANSFORMERS, HEATING APPLIANCES, STUDIO EFFECTS LIGHTING
AND MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT OR APPLIANCES.	The fees prescribed in this section
cover the inspection of the supply branch circuit and the utilization equipment
supplied therefrom and the control equipment therefor.	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No.
171,185, Eff. 7/22/96.)  Except where supplied by branch circuits rated over 50
amperes, the fees required by this section apply only to nondwelling
occupancies.  The fee for each motor, transformer, heating appliance, welder,
rectifier, x-ray machine, storage battery system, infrared industrial heating
appliance, cooking or baking equipment, studio effects lighting, and other
miscellaneous equipment or appliances shall be given in the following table for
the rating thereof:FEES FOR MOTORS, TRANSFORMERS, HEATING APPLIANCES,
STUDIO EFFECTS LIGHTING AND MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT OR APPLIANCES
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)
  
    
      
        H.P., K.W., or K.V.A. Rating of Equipment
      
      
        Fees
      
    
    
      
        Over 3 and not over 5
      
      
        $19.00
      
    
    
      
        Over 5 and not over 20
      
      
        29.00
      
    
    
      
        Over 20 and not over 50
      
      
        41.00
      
    
    
      
        Over 50 and not over 100
      
      
        76.00
      
    
    
      
        Over 100
      
      
        118.00
      
    
  
	(b)	The fees listed in the foregoing table shall be required for all fixed
equipment. Where fixed equipment is supplied by flexible cords to facilitate
servicing or replacement, those fees shall apply to the receptacle outlet
supplying the equipment. Those fees shall also apply for each receptacle outlet
installed for the supply of portable equipment rated larger than three H.P.,
K.W., or K.V.A.	(c)	For any equipment or appliance containing more than one
motor, or other current consuming utilization components in addition to the
motor or motors, the combined electrical ratings converted to K.V.A. of all
utilization equipment shall be used to determine the fee. For the purpose of
this subsection, one H.P. or one K.W. is equivalent to one K.V.A. The total
ampere ratings of all receptacles installed on a factory fabricated wireway
assembly for studio effects lighting may be used in computing the fees therefor.
(Amended by Ord. No. 161,316, Eff. 7/7/86.)	(d)	The fees for a change of
location or replacement of equipment on the same premises shall be the same as
that for a new installation. However, no fees shall be required for moving any
temporary construction motor from one place to another on the same site during
the time of actual construction work after a permit has once been obtained for
such motor and the fees required therefor have been paid.	(e)	The fees for
equipment described in this section which are temporarily installed for trade
shows or carnivals shall be 50% of the amount shown in the fee table specified
in Subparagraph (a) of this section. (Added by Ord. No. 151,218  Eff. 8/17/78.)
