                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES FOR WITNESSING TESTS OF EMERGENCY SYSTEMS AND FIRE WARNING SYSTEMS. (§
93.0235)

  FEES FOR WITNESSING TESTS OF EMERGENCY SYSTEMS AND FIRE WARNING SYSTEMS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 155,043, Eff. 6/11/81.)	(a)	The fees for
conducting or witnessing the original test of an Emergency System or Fire
Warning System shall be collected as specified in Section 98.0412(f) for each
inspector.  The fees required by this subsection shall be in addition to the
fees required elsewhere in the Code (see Section 93.0307(c)) of this Code. 
(Amended by Ord. No 166,524, Eff. 1/29/91.)	(b)	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,868,
Eff. 10/22/09.)  The fees for conducting or witnessing an annual test for each
existing emergency system, other than unit equipment, shall be prescribed in
Table A of this subsection (see Section 93.0307(c)).TABLE A
FEES FOR CONDUCTING ANNUAL TEST OF EMERGENCY SYSTEMS
  
    
      
        Combined K.W. of K.V.A. Rating of Supply System
      
      
        Fees
      
    
    
      
        10 or less
      
      
        $69.00
      
    
    
      
        10.1 to 50, total fee
      
      
        104.00
      
    
    
      
        50.1 to 100, total fee
      
      
        132.00
      
    
    
      
        For each additional 100 K.W. or K.V.A.
      
      
        38.00
      
    
  
	Where a building contains more than ten occupied floors, a fee of $41.00 shall
be paid for each additional group or portion of a group of ten floors.	The fees
for conducting or witnessing an annual test of an existing emergency system
comprised of unit equipment shall be as prescribed in Table B of this
subsection.TABLE B
FEES FOR CONDUCTING ANNUAL TESTS OF UNIT EQUIPMENT
  
    
      
        Units
      
      
        Fees
      
    
    
      
        1-5 units, inclusive
      
      
        $41.00
      
    
    
      
        Each additional unit
      
      
        2.00
      
    
  
	(c)	A Certificate of Approval, valid for a period of one year, shall be issued
by the Department following each test when the system is found to be in
compliance. The Certificate of Approval shall be prominently posted adjacent to
the generator or battery system.	EXCEPTION:  The Certificate of Approval need
not be posted by the equipment provided it is on display on the premises and the
location of posting is noted at the generator or battery system location. The
Certificate shall show:	1.	A technical description of the system;	2.	The
electrical rating; and	3.	Date of issuance.	When systems are found to be
defective and additional inspection trips are required, added trip fees shall be
paid as specified in Section 93.0229.	(d)	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,593, Eff.
6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  Certificates of Approval are subject to revocation by
the Superintendent of Building when:	1.	It is found that the tests and
maintenance prescribed in Article 700 of the C.E.C. are not being accomplished;
or	2.	The supply system is found to be defective.
