                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

OUTDOOR LIGHTING AFFECTING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. (§ 93.0117)

  OUTDOOR LIGHTING AFFECTING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 163,211*, Eff. 3/7/88.)	*	The provisions of this ordinance
shall not apply to existing light sources on non-residential property until the
expiration of 180-days after the effective date of this ordinance.
(9/3/88).	(a)	The provisions of this section shall apply to any exterior light
source.  A light source, as used in this section is a bulb or tube light
emitting device, and not a light fixture containing several bulbs or tube light
emitting devices.	(b)	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,858, Eff. 1/23/98.)  No person
shall construct, establish, create, or maintain any stationary exterior light
source that may cause the following locations to be either illuminated by more
than two footcandles (21.5 lx) of lighting intensity or receive direct glare
from the light source:	1.	Any exterior glazed window or sliding glass door on
any other property containing a residential unit or units.	2.	Any elevated
habitable porch, deck or balcony on any other property containing a residential
unit or units.	3.	Any ground surface intended for uses such as recreation,
barbecue, or lawn areas on any other property containing a residential unit or
units.	EXCEPTIONS:  This subsection shall not apply to:	1.	Any frosted light
source emitting 800 lumens or less.	2.	Any other light source emitting more than
800 lumens where the light source is not visible to persons on other residential
property.	3.	Any new or existing tennis or paddle tennis court exterior light
source which conforms to the following:	A.	Tennis courts shall be lighted by a
maximum of eight horizontally mounted, rectilinear-type, sharp cut-off fixtures
shielded in such a manner that the light source cannot be viewable from abutting
residential properties. Lamps shall be of the metal halide type of not more than
1,000 watts each, mounted at a height of 20 feet (6096 mm) or less above the
court surface and produce not more than 50 footcandles (538 lx) of lighting
intensity on the court surface.	B.	Paddle Tennis Courts shall be subject to all
the provisions of Subparagraph 3A, except that the number of fixtures shall be
limited to four.	C.	Tennis or Paddle Tennis Court lights shall not be turned on
or left on between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., Monday through Friday,
and between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., Saturday and Sunday.	D.	The
light source intensity at locations indicated in this subsection shall not
exceed three footcandles (32.3 lx).	4.	Decorative lights with individual light
sources emitting 300 lumens or less and temporarily installed between November
25 and January 15 of the next year.	5.	Emergency lights or temporary lighting
sources used for repair or construction as required by governmental
agencies.	6.	Lighting sources owned or controlled by any public agency for the
purpose of directing or controlling navigation, traffic or for highway or street
illumination.	7.	Aircraft warning lights.	8.	Any other light source which is a
minimum of 2,000 feet (609.6 m) in distance from any other property with a
residential unit or units.	9.	Lights that are provided in compliance with
Sections 12.21 A.5.(k), 91.6305.2 and 91.8607 of the LAMC.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)	(c)	The owner of property with any
existing light source shall bring such light source into compliance with this
section upon receipt of written notice from the Department of Building and
Safety.
