                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DISTRACTING, CONFUSING OR NUISANCE LIGHTING VIEWED FROM PUBLIC STREETS, HIGHWAYS
OR OTHER PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES USED BY VEHICULAR TRAFFIC. (§ 93.0107)

  DISTRACTING, CONFUSING OR NUISANCE LIGHTING VIEWED FROM PUBLIC STREETS,
HIGHWAYS OR OTHER PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES USED BY VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.
	(Added by Ord. No. 161,316, Eff. 7/7/86.)	(a)	No person shall construct,
establish, create, or maintain any stationary exterior electric lighting or
illumination system or any interior system which is visible from a public
street, highway or other public thoroughfare used for vehicular traffic, that
contains or utilizes:	1.	An exposed incandescent lamp with a rated wattage in
excess of 40 watts.	2.	An exposed incandescent lamp with an internal metallic
reflector.	3.	An exposed incandescent lamp with an external reflector.	4.	A
revolving beacon light.	5.	A continuous or sequential flashing operation in
which more than one- third of the lights are turned on or off at one time.	6.	An
illuminating device or devices which produce illumination in excess of what is
permitted in Section 21466.5 of the State of California Vehicle Code.	(b)	The
provisions of this section shall not apply to:  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,858,
Eff. 1/23/98.)	1.	Lighting systems owned or controlled by any public agency for
the purpose of directing or controlling navigation, traffic, or for highway or
street illumination.	2.	Aircraft warning lights.	3.	Systems which only display
the time of day and/or the atmospheric temperature or programmable electronic
messages.	4.	Temporary lighting used for repair or construction as required by
governmental agencies.	5.	Lights that are provided in compliance with Sections
12.21 A.5.(k), 91.6305.2 and 91.8607 of the LAMC.  (Amended by Ord. No.
176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)
