                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SCOPE OF PERMIT. (§ 93.0203)

  SCOPE OF PERMIT.	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 157,619, Eff. 5/31/83.)  The
issuance of a permit is not an approval or an authorization of the work
specified therein. A permit is merely an application for inspection, the
issuance of which entitles the permittee to inspection of the work which is
described therein.	EXCEPTION:  Where the wiring exceeds the amount described in
the original permit, the Department is authorized to make such additional
inspection as is required and collect supplementary fee therefor by the
supplemental permit system subject to the following provisions:	1.	The fees
charged shall be the difference in cost between the total fees due upon final
inspection and fees paid at the time of the original application for
inspection.	2.	A fee of as specified in Section 98.0415(d) shall be paid for
issuing such supplemental permit.  The fee required by this subsection shall be
in addition to fees required elsewhere in the Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
168,231, Eff. 10/18/92.)	3.	All fees shall apply only to that work installed for
the same person as the “owner” in the permit.	4.	All fees shall apply to
installations where work has not been discontinued for a continuous period of
more than 180 days.	(b)	Neither the issuance of a permit nor the approval by
this Department of any document shall constitute an approval of any violation of
any provision of this Code or of any other law or ordinance, and a permit or
other document purporting to give authority to violate any law shall not be
valid with respect thereto.
