                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CERTIFICATE OF QUALIFICATION. (§ 93.0505)

  CERTIFICATE OF QUALIFICATION.	(a)	No person shall act as a Maintenance
Supervisor without having a valid Certificate of Qualification of the proper
classification issued pursuant to the provisions of this section.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 161,316, Eff. 7/7/86.)	(b)	Every applicant for a Certificate of
Qualification shall successfully pass an examination to determine his ability to
perform the work. The examination shall include a written test and may include a
practical and oral interview. The Department shall determine the scope of the
examination and shall establish the regulations for the conduct of the
examination.	EXCEPTION:  The examination may be waived for applicants who hold
a valid State of California Electrical Contractor’s C-10 License.	(c)	Every
applicant for Certificate of Qualification shall pay a fee as required by
Section 93.0242.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,316, Eff. 7/7/86.)	(d)	Every
Certificate of Qualification for maintenance supervisor shall expire three years
following the date of issuance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,593, Eff. 6/28/99,
Oper. 7/1/99.)	(e)	An expired Certificate of Qualification may be renewed at any
time within 12 months after expiration without making application as set forth
in Subsections (a) and (b) of this section, provided that, after the first month
the renewal fee is paid as required by Subsection (b) of Section 93.0242. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 154,234, Eff. 9/8/80.)	(f)	The Department may revoke or
suspend any Certificate of Qualification for failure, refusal or neglect of the
holder to comply with the provisions of the Code or for any reason set forth in
Article 8 of Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 147,537, Eff. 9/15/80.)
