                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES REQUIRED. (§ 93.0213)

  FEES REQUIRED.	(a)	The fees described in this division must be paid to the
Department for each electrical installation for which a permit is required by
this Code, and must be paid before any such permit is issued except as
hereinafter provided.	(b)	An issuing fee as specified in Section 98.0415(c)
shall be paid for issuing each permit.  The fee required by this subsection
shall be in addition to fees required elsewhere in this Code.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 168,231, Eff. 10/18/92.)	(c)	The fees prescribed in this division shall
apply to equipment, appliances, fixtures, and devices that are intended to
remain in fixed positions and are connected to permanent wiring either directly
or through receptacles provided to facilitate servicing and
replacement.	(d)	(Amended by Ord. No. 154,234, Eff. 9/8/80.)  Fees shall be
paid for new branch circuits as prescribed in Section
93.0214.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Fees prescribed in Section 93.0216 shall be paid for new
branch circuits for the supply of motors, transformers, heating appliances,
studio effects lighting and miscellaneous equipment or appliances not
specifically set forth in Section 93.0214.	2.	Fees prescribed in Section 93.0223
shall be paid for each swimming pool. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,316, Eff.
7/7/86.)	3.	Fees for new branch circuits supplying signs and gas tube systems
shall be paid as prescribed in Section 93.0222.	4.	Fees prescribed in Section
93.0215 shall be paid for new branch circuits supplying temporary
lighting.	(e)	Where otherwise not covered in this Code, fees shall be paid for
outlets, lighting fixtures, appliances, motors, or other utilization equipment
added to existing branch circuits as prescribed in Section 93.0215. (Amended by
Ord. No. 154,234, Eff. 9/8/80.)	(f)	(Added by Ord. No. 171,185, Eff. 7/22/96.) 
Fees shall be paid for any wiring for which a permit is required and no fees
provided.	(g)	(Added by Ord. No. 171,185, Eff. 7/22/96.)  Fees shall be paid
for any conduit installed by special permission prior to plan approval.
