                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS. (§ 94.103.0)

  PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.94.103.1.  Permits Required.94.103.1.1.  General. 
Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no person shall add, alter,
construct, install, move, reconstruct, relocate, remove, repair or replace any
plumbing, fire sprinkler, rainwater piping, standpipe, subsurface drainage
piping, swimming pool piping, reclaimed water piping, underground fire
protection piping, or graywater piping system unless a plumbing or fire
sprinkler permit for it has been obtained from the Department.94.103.1.1.1.  A
permit shall be required where the Department has determined that the gas piping
shall be retested for the following:	(1)	The system has been out of service for
a period of one year.	(2)	Where the Department has determined there is system
leakage creating an immediate hazard to persons or property.94.103.1.1.2. 
Relocated Buildings.  Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no person
shall connect any work in a relocated building to a supply pipe or drain pipe
unless a permit for all the work in the relocated building has been obtained
from the Department.94.103.1.1.3.  Separate Permits Required.  A separate
plumbing and/or fire sprinkler permit shall be obtained for the work indicated
on each building permit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff.
5/12/09.)94.103.1.1.4.  No person shall be subject to fine, imprisonment, or
payment of an investigation fee for starting or doing work without a permit
being first obtained, if a permit is obtained for the work on or before 12:00
noon of the third day the office of the Department is open for public business
after the work was started.94.103.1.1.5.  Transfer of Permits and Plan
Checks.  No permit shall be transferable from the original permittee to any
other person unless the property owner authorizes the transfer in writing. 
Upon authorization, the new permittee shall file with the Department a new
permit and pay to the Department a fee as specified in Section 98.0415 for
issuing the new permit.  This fee includes the issuing permit fee as specified
in Section 94.103.4 of this Code.  No plan check is transferable from one
contractor to another unless prepared and signed by a state-licensed engineer in
the proper classification.94.103.1.2.  Permits Not Required.94.103.1.2.1. 
General.  The work described in this section shall not require a permit,
however this waiver of permit shall not be deemed to allow any work to be added,
altered, constructed, demolished, installed, reconstructed, relocated, removed,
repaired or replaced contrary to the provisions of this Code.94.103.1.2.2. 
General Repairs.  No permit shall be required for the repairing or replacement
of faucets, ball cocks, exposed fixture traps or shut-off valves, or a
residential garbage disposal.94.103.1.2.3.  Stoppages and Leaks.  No permit
shall be required for the clearing of stoppages or repairing of leaks, except in
gas piping, when the repairs do not require the removal and replacement of
plumbing fixtures or any portion of the drainage system.94.103.1.2.4.  Gas
Piping.  No permit shall be required for the installation or repair of a gas
utility meter, nor for gas piping between the main and the nearest gas utility
meter, nor for gas piping installed by the gas utility outside of private
property, nor for the gas utility to disconnect defective gas piping and/or
equipment when authorized by 94.1207, nor for any piping connection less than
six feet in length between an existing gas outlet and a gas appliance in the
same room.94.103.1.2.5.  A separate plumbing permit shall not be required for
the installation of any plumbing system for which a combined building-mechanical
permit has been obtained pursuant to Section 91.107.2.1.1.1.94.103.1.2.6.  No
permit shall be required for the capping of a private sewage disposal system
where a grading permit is required.94.103.1.2.7.  Water Heater Repair.  No
permit shall be required for the repair of any gas-fired water heater, provided
the water heater is not disconnected.94.103.1.2.8.  Resetting of Fixtures.  No
permit shall be required for the resetting of existing plumbing fixtures on
existing rough-in, which have been removed for the sole purpose of repairing or
replacing walls or floors.94.103.1.2.9.  High Efficiency Fixtures.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 180,822, Eff. 9/4/09.)	(a)	Residential.  Whenever new fixtures are
installed, all water closets, shower heads, faucets and dishwashers shall be
High Efficiency fixtures installed in accordance with the regulations of the
City’s Water Conservation Plan.  A plumbing permit is not required for the
installation of High Efficiency water closets, shower heads, faucets and
dishwashers in existing one and two family dwelling units when done as part of
the City’s “Water Conservation Retrofit Program” pursuant to the City’s
water conservation regulations.  These permit exempted installations shall be
limited to the replacement of non-water efficient water closets, shower heads,
faucets and dishwashers with new High Efficiency water closets, shower heads,
faucets, and dishwashers installed on the existing rough-in plumbing outlets. 
Plumbing permits shall be required for all High Efficiency fixtures in new
buildings.  This Code Section does not waive the requirement for a licensed
plumbing contractor to perform the installation of a High Efficiency water
fixture in an apartment unit or non-owner-occupied single-family
dwellings.	(b)	Commercial.  Whenever new fixtures are installed, all water
closets, urinals, shower heads, faucets and dishwashers shall be High Efficiency
fixtures installed in accordance with the regulations of the City’s Water
Conservation Ordinance.  A plumbing permit shall be obtained for both new and
replacement installations of all High Efficiency water closets, urinals, and
dishwashers to confirm that the new installation or replacement is in accordance
with the regulations of the City’s Water Conservation Ordinance.  In all
commercial occupancies, a Qualified Installer, as defined in Section 94.219.0
shall perform the installation of any High Efficiency water fixture or
appliance.94.103.1.2.10.  Rainwater Systems.  No permit shall be required for
exterior exposed rainwater leaders.94.103.1.2.11.  Exhibition.  No permit
shall be required for work set up for exhibition or for a television or motion
picture set without any direct connection to any system for which a permit is
required.94.103.1.2.12.  Certified Licensed Contractors.  No permit shall be
required for the replacement of the following items when the work is done on a
detached, single-family dwelling and the work is performed by a contractor with
a valid Certificate of Registration as a Certified Licensed Contractor pursuant
to Section 91.1705:	(1)	Replacement of defective hot water heaters with one of
equivalent gallonage, BTU rating, and vent capacity when the vent does not
require relocation or replacement;	(2)	Replacement of plumbing fixtures and
solar panels with equal kind and quality;	(3)	Replacement of defective domestic
water piping within a dwelling with piping of equivalent size and quality;
and	(4)	Replacement of defective metallic water service piping with piping of
equivalent size, quality, and conductivity.  Metallic water service piping
cannot be replaced with PVC under this provision.	(5)	Replacement of shower pans
with the same size and capacity.	A Certificate of Compliance pursuant to Section
91.108.12.3.1 must be filed with the City in lieu of a permit.94.103.2. 
Application for Permit.  Section 103.2 of the C.P.C. is hereby adopted by
reference.94.103.3.  Permit Issuance.  Section 103.3 of the C.P.C. is hereby
adopted by reference.94.103.3.4. Expiration of Permits.  (Added by Ord. No.
181,757, Eff. 7/6/11.)  Permits shall expire as provided for in Section 98.0602
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.94.103.3.5. Suspension or Revocation.  (Added
by Ord. No. 181,757, Eff. 7/6/11.)  Permits may be revoked as provided in
Section 98.0601 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.94.103.4.  Fees.  (Amended
In Entirety by Ord. No. 173,678, Eff. 1/14/01.)94.103.4.1.  Permit Fees. 
(Amended by Ord. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)  Before any permit required by this
Code is issued, the applicant shall pay to the Department the fees specified in
Table 1-A for each building or structure.TABLE 1-A
PLUMBING PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE
  
    
      
        Permit:
      
      
        	Fee
      
    
    
      
        1.
      
      
        For issuing permits:
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        a.  Permit issuing fee	
      
      
        $24.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        b.  Supplementary permit issuing fee	
      
      
        $20.00
      
    
    
      
        Plumbing fixtures and water systems:
      
    
    
      
        2.
      
      
        For each plumbing fixture and waste discharging device, such as, toilet,
urinal, bathtub, shower, lavatory, kitchen sink and other type of sink, garbage
disposal, clothes washer, drinking fountain, floor drain, laundry tray,  floor
sink, dental cuspidor and chemical waste fixture:
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        a.  Original installation	
      
      
        $23.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        b.  Replacement or Removal	
      
      
        $10.00
      
    
    
      
        3.
      
      
        For each piece of water treating, dispensing equipment or trap primer
connected to a potable water system	
      
      
        $17.00
      
    
    
      
        4.
      
      
        For replacing water piping in a building, each fixture, each water
treating device or each water using device	
      
      
        $14.00
      
    
    
      
        5.
      
      
        For each water pressure regulator	
      
      
        $17.00
      
    
    
      
        6.
      
      
        For atmospheric-type vacuum breakers not included in Item 2, each	
      
      
        $7.00
      
    
    
      
        7.
      
      
        For each backflow protective device other than atmospheric-type vacuum
breakers, each	
      
      
        $24.00
      
    
    
      
        8.
      
      
        For each water heater and vent or heat exchanger	
      
      
        $28.00
      
    
    
      
        9.
      
      
        For each thermal expansion tank	
      
      
        $15.00
      
    
    
      
        10.
      
      
        For booster pumps for potable water systems (including tanks that are an
integral part of the pump package), each system	
      
      
        $86.00
      
    
    
      
        11.
      
      
        For water storage tanks for potable water systems that are not part of a
listed appliance or part of a booster pump package, each tank	
      
      
        $72.00
      
    
    
      
        12.
      
      
        a.  On-site water distribution system (Multiple buildings)	
      
      
        $194.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        b.  Water service (Single building)	
      
      
        $64.00
      
    
    
      
        Waste systems:
      
    
    
      
        13.
      
      
        For repair or alteration of drainage and/or vent piping, per fixture	
      
      
        $10.00
      
    
    
      
        14.
      
      
        For each sewage ejector	
      
      
        $79.00
      
    
    
      
        15.
      
      
        For each industrial waste, pretreatment clarifier, sand or grease
interceptor	
      
      
        $36.00
      
    
    
      
        16.
      
      
        a.  For each complete private sewage disposal system, each  system	
      
      
        $158.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        b.  For each separate septic tank, cesspool, seepage pit or drain
field	
      
      
        $64.00
      
    
    
      
        17.
      
      
        For building sewer installations:
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        a.  For each connection to the public sewer or dry sewer, each building
drain	
      
      
        $40.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        b.  For each on-site manhole	
      
      
        $158.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        c.  For sewer alterations, repairing or capping, each building or
structure	
      
      
        $24.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        d.  For each backwater valve	
      
      
        $24.00
      
    
    
      
        18.
      
      
        For graywater piping system; includes a maximum of two inspections	
      
      
        $79.00
      
    
    
      
        Rainwater systems:
      
    
    
      
        19.
      
      
        For each rainwater drain (including roof, overflow, area and deck
drains, etc.)	
      
      
        $23.00
      
    
    
      
        20.
      
      
        For each subsurface drainage piping system (not including sump pumps)	
      
      
        $79.00
      
    
    
      
        21.
      
      
        For each sump pump	
      
      
        $79.00
      
    
    
      
        Gas systems:
      
    
    
      
        22.
      
      
        For each gas system outlet	
      
      
        $10.00
      
    
    
      
        23.
      
      
        For each earthquake valve or each gas pressureregulator (not applicable
to appliance regulator)	
      
      
        $23.00
      
    
    
      
        24.
      
      
        Methane Gas Extraction System:  includes a maximum of two inspections	
      
      
        $121.00
      
    
    
      
        Other plumbing systems:
      
    
    
      
        25.
      
      
        Lawn sprinklers, each valve	
      
      
        $7.00
      
    
    
      
        26.
      
      
        Solar systems components: (including collectors, related storage tanks
piping and regulating devices)	
      
      
        $21.00
      
    
    
      
        27.
      
      
        Each  public  swimming  pool  or  spa  (per system)	
      
      
        $242.00
      
    
    
      
        Fire protection:
      
    
    
      
        28.
      
      
        Standpipes:  wet, dry or combination (Class I, II or III) Class H or
hand hoses for fire protection:
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        Each  outlet  that  has  an  integral  pressure regulator	
      
      
        $72.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        Other outlets without pressure regulators	
      
      
        $50.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        Capping of outlets (each outlet)	
      
      
        $10.00
      
    
    
      
        29.
      
      
        Water pressure regulators for fire protection systems (except regulators
that are part of a standpipe outlet valve), each regulator	
      
      
        $63.00
      
    
    
      
        30.
      
      
        Fire sprinkler piping removal or alteration, or the replacement or
addition of valves, attachments or devices, each	
      
      
        $61.00
      
    
    
      
        31.
      
      
        Underground fire sprinkler piping, or yard piping system for fire
sprinklers (when permit has not been  obtained  for  complete  fire 
sprinkler system)	
      
      
        $144.00
      
    
    
      
        32.
      
      
        Replacing fire sprinkler heads (except fused or broken heads):
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        1 to 10 heads	
      
      
        $28.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        11 to 50 heads	
      
      
        $57.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        51 to 100 heads	
      
      
        $117.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        Plus $117.00 for each 100 heads or fraction thereof over 100 heads
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        33.
      
      
        Fire sprinkler piping installations:
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 1 to 10 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $64.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 11 to 25 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $122.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 26 to 50 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $194.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 51 to 100 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $360.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 101 to 200 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $547.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 201 to 300 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $648.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 301 to 500 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $1225.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 501 to 1000 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $1730.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 1001 to 2000 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $2884.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 2001 to 3000 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $4326.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 3001 to 4000 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $5047.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 4001 to 5000 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $5768.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        From 5001 to 6000 sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $6489.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        Over 6000 fire sprinkler heads	
      
      
        $7931.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        Plus $144.00 for each 100 heads or fraction of 100 heads over 6000
heads.
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        34.
      
      
        Fire hydrant:
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        1 to 3 hydrants	
      
      
        $348.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        Over 3, each	
      
      
        $117.00
      
    
    
      
        35.
      
      
        The fee for relocation of heads or for converting a system from upright
to pendant heads, or from pendant heads to upright heads, shall be as set forth
for a new installation.
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        36.
      
      
        Fire pumps:
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        Serving Class II (wet) or Class H standpipes:
      
      
         
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
          For each installation pump	
      
      
        $115.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
          Original test of pump	
      
      
        $115.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
          Additional test of pump	
      
      
        $115.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        Serving Class III (combination) combined and/or Fire sprinkler systems:
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
          For each installation of pump	
      
      
        $288.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
          Test of each pump (each test)	
      
      
        $540.00
      
    
    
      
        37.
      
      
        Tanks for fire protection systems, each  tank	
      
      
        $63.00
      
    
    
      
        38.
      
      
        Class I (dry) standpipe flush:
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        One or two risers	
      
      
        $134.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        Each additional riser	
      
      
        $80.00
      
    
    
      
        39.
      
      
        Minimum Inspection Fee:  A permittee shall pay a minimum fee as
specified in Section 98.0412(a) of this Code to the Department for each plumbing
installation for which a permit is required by this Code.  Where the cumulative
fees set forth in this Code are less than the minimum fee, the minimum fee shall
be paid.  The fee required by this section shall include the issuing fee
required by Item 1 of this Table.
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        a.  Minimum inspection fee	
      
      
        $93.00
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        b.  Single fixtures	
      
      
        $57.00
      
    
  
94.103.4.2.  Plan Check Fees.  Before plans are checked, the applicant shall
pay the following plan check fees to the Department:94.103.4.2.1.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)  Plumbing drainage and vent piping, fuel gas
piping, gas vents, rainwater piping, subsurface drainage piping and water
piping.	All projects:	70% of the permit fee,	$93.00 minimum per
building.	EXCEPTION:  Portions of installations:	Plan checking of potable
water:	60% of the above fee,	$93.00 minimum per building.	Plan checking of
conventional waste and vent systems, only:	50% of the above fee,	$93.00 minimum
per building.94.103.4.2.2.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)  In
addition to the fee specified in Section 94.103.4.2.1, above, a plan checking
fee shall be assessed for checking the following systems:	Combination  waste 
and  vent  piping  systems, each  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;. .. $216.00	Sump   pump   and   sewage   ejector  
systems, each  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. ..
$208.00	Greywater systems, each  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;. .. $312.00	Irrigation sprinkler piping systems, 	First 
5000  square  feet  of  irrigated area  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. .. $312.00	Every additional 5000 square
feet or fraction thereof  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;. .. $108.00	Soil remediation systems, each 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. .. $216.00	Methane
gas venting systems, each  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;. .. $216.00	Hydraulic calculations of standpipe systems
serving 2-1/2 inch fire hose valves and fire sprinklers, each fire protection
zone  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. 
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. .. $721.00	Fire
protection, swimming pool piping and all other systems not covered by Section
94.103.4.2.1:	70% of the permit fee,	$93.00 minimum per building.94.103.4.3. 
Expiration of Permit and Plan Check.  Permits may expire as provided in Section
98.0602.  Plans may expire as provided in Section 98.0603.94.103.4.4. 
Investigation Fees.  Investigation Fees may be assessed as provided in Section
98.0402.94.103.4.5.  Refund of Fees.  Refund of fees may be requested as
provided in Section 98.0420.94.103.4.6.  Additional Permit and Inspection
Fees.94.103.4.6.1.  Miscellaneous Equipment.  A minimum fee as specified in
Section 98.0412(c) shall be paid for inspection of any installation of equipment
regulated by this Code which requires inspection for determination of Code
compliance and where the installation inspection is not provided for in the
permit fee schedule specified in Section 94.103.4.1.  This fee is in addition
to the permit issuing fee specified in Table 1-A.94.103.4.6.2.  Miscellaneous
Piping.  When special permission has been obtained from the Department, a
miscellaneous permit shall be issued for fire sprinkler, fire protection
underground, domestic water, waste or vent piping installed underground or in
walls or ceilings of installations where a fire protection or a plumbing permit
cannot be issued until the required plans have been approved.  The
miscellaneous permit shall not be an authorization to install any additional
piping.  A fee as specified in Section 98.0412(c) shall be collected for the
inspection of this installation and shall be limited to one inspection trip and
one reinspection trip.  This fee is in addition to the permit issuing fee
specified in Table 1-A.94.103.4.6.3.  Additional Inspections.  If more
inspection trips than specified in this article are found necessary due to fault
or error on the part of the qualified installer or his employees, the permittee
shall pay an additional fee as specified in Section 98.0412(b) for each
additional inspection trip.  This fee is in addition to the permit issuing fee
specified in Table 1-A.94.103.4.6.4.  Off-Hour Inspections.  The Department
may, at its discretion, make inspections at other than normal working hours upon
application  by a permittee as specified in Section 98.0406.94.103.4.6.5. 
Off-Site Inspection.  The Department may, at its discretion, make inspections
at locations other than the site upon which a building will be located, provided
the location is within 60 miles of the Los Angeles City Hall.  A fee as
specified in Section 98.0412(e), in addition to fees charged elsewhere in this
Code, shall be charged for the inspections.  The time shall include travel to
and from the place of inspections.94.103.4.6.6.  Change of Address and Transfer
of Permit or Plan Checks.  Applications for plan check and permits shall
indicate the correct legal street address.  If the Department determines a job
address or the location of a job is incorrect, then the permit becomes void. 
If the applicant files a separate application (showing the correct information)
and pays a filing fee as specified in Section 98.0415(a), then no additional
permit fee will be required.94.103.4.6.7.  Critical Soil Survey.  The fee for
a survey of location for a proposed private sewage disposal system, and/or
percolation test, shall be $92.00.  On premises where a public sewer is not
available for use, a survey and percolation test may be required to determine if
a private sewer disposal system can be installed to adequately serve the
intended use.94.103.4.7.  Additional Plan Check Fees.94.103.4.7.1.  Hourly
Plan Check Fee.  The Department may collect a plan check fee, based on an
hourly rate, for any item not included in the plan check schedule as provided in
Section 98.0415(e).94.103.4.7.2.  Off-hour Plan Check Fee.  The Department
may, at its discretion, provide plan check at other than normal working hours
upon application by an applicant as specified in Section 98.0422.94.103.4.7.3. 
Energy Plan Check Fee.  The Department shall impose an energy plan check fee of
10 percent of the permit fee for the service of checking plans when the work is
required to comply with Title 24, Part 6, of the California Building Standards
Code, the State’s energy conservation requirements.94.103.4.8.  Systems
Development Surcharge. A permittee shall pay a surcharge for the development and
implementation of a City-wide automated permit processing service as provided in
Section 98.0416.94.103.4.9.  One-Stop Surcharge.  A permittee shall pay a
surcharge as provided in Section 98.0410.94.103.5.  Inspections.  Section
103.5 of the C.P.C. is hereby adopted by reference with the following additions
and amendments.94.103.5.1.  General.  Section 103.5.1 of the C.P.C. is hereby
adopted by reference.94.103.5.2.  Operation of Plumbing Equipment.  Section
103.5.2 of the C.P.C. is hereby adopted by reference.94.103.5.3.  Testing of
Systems.  Section 103.5.3 of the C.P.C. is hereby adopted by
reference.94.103.5.4.  Inspection Requests.  Section 103.5.4 of the C.P.C. is
hereby adopted by reference.94.103.5.4.1.  Advance Notice.  Section 103.5.4.1
of the C.P.C. is hereby adopted by reference.94.103.5.4.2.  Responsibility. 
Section 103.5.4.2 of the C.P.C. is hereby adopted by reference.94.103.5.4.3. 
Test Equipment.  The equipment, material, and labor necessary for inspection or
tests shall be furnished at no cost to the City.94.103.5.5.  Other
Inspections.  Section 103.5.5 of the C.P.C. is hereby adopted by
reference.94.103.5.6.  Reinspections.  Section 103.5.6 of the C.P.C. is hereby
adopted by reference. 94.103.6.  Connection Approval.  Section 103.6 of the
C.P.C. is hereby adopted by reference.94.103.7.  Unconstitutionality.  Section
103.7 of the C.P.C. is hereby adopted by reference.94.103.8.  Validity. 
Section 103.8 of the C.P.C. is hereby adopted by reference.94.103.9. 
Certificate of Occupancy.  Section 103.9 of the C.P.C. is hereby adopted by
reference.94.103.10.  Certificate of Final Inspection.94.103.10.1.  Fees.  No
Certificate of Final Inspection shall be issued until all fees required by the
Code have been paid to the Department.94.103.10.2.  Approval.  A Certificate
of Final Inspection shall be issued for work that has been inspected and
approved, upon demand, provided that no Certificate of Final Inspection for gas
piping shall be issued until all required fire sprinklers, standpipes and fire
hydrants are approved and ready for use.94.103.10.3.  To Whom Issued.  No
Certificate for Final Inspection shall be issued to any person, other than the
owner of the building, structure, or premises, the person who did the work, or
the agent of the owner or person.94.103.11.  Qualified Installer.  It is
unlawful for any person who is not a Qualified Installer as defined in Division
2 of this Code to alter, install, or repair any plumbing regulated by this Code,
except as provided in Sections 94.103.12.1 and 94.103.13.0 of this
division.94.103.12.0.  Maintenance Certificate of Registration.94.103.12.1.  A
Maintenance Certificate of Registration as defined in Division 2 of this Code
may be issued to the owner or occupant of specified premises for the sole
purpose of adding to, altering, maintaining or repairing existing plumbing only
on the premises designated.94.103.12.2.  Issuance.  Every applicant who passes
the required examination or has in his employ a qualified maintenance supervisor
as defined in Division 2 of this Code who is properly registered with the
Department shall be issued a Maintenance Certificate of Registration for
specified premises upon payment of a fee.94.103.12.3.  Validity.  A
Maintenance Certificate of Registration issued to an owner or occupant of
premises by virtue of the fact that an employee of that person is registered
with the Department as a holder of a valid Certificate of Qualification as a
maintenance supervisor shall become invalid when the owner or occupant ceases to
have in his or her employ a certified maintenance supervisor properly registered
with the Department.94.103.12.4.  Maintenance Permits.  Permits may be issued
to the holder of a valid Maintenance Certificate of Registration for the
addition to, alteration, maintenance or repair of existing plumbing on premises
owned by or under the legal control of the applicant, provided all work
authorized by the permit is performed by or is under the direct supervision of
the holder of a Certificate of Qualification as a Maintenance Supervisor,
registered with the Department for the premises.94.103.13.0.  Certificate of
Qualification Required.94.103.13.1.  Scope.  No person except a Qualified
Installer as defined in Chapter 2 of this Code shall supervise or perform the
labor of altering, installing or repairing any plumbing regulated by this
Code.	EXCEPTION:  A person in the employ of a Qualified Installer and who
supervises plumbing work shall be required to have a Certificate of
Qualification.94.103.13.1.1.  Apprentices and Helpers.  No Certificate of
Qualification shall be required for an apprentice or helper, as defined in
Division 2 of this Code, who is working under the continuous supervision of a
Qualified Installer or journeylevel plumber.  Supervision shall be considered
continuous if the Qualified Installer or journeylevel plumber is not absent for
more than one hour continuously nor more than two hours total during any one
day.  No more than three apprentices or helpers shall be employed for each
Qualified Installer or journeylevel plumber on any lot.94.103.13.2.  Gas
Fitting.  A person who holds a valid Certificate of Qualification as a
journeylevel gas fitter may perform the labor of gas fitting in the employ of
and under the supervision of a Qualified Installer.94.103.13.3.  Maintenance
Supervisor.  No person shall act as a Maintenance Supervisor unless that person
holds a valid Certificate of Qualification in the proper classification issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.  No person shall act in the
capacity of a Maintenance Supervisor for more than one firm at any one
time.94.103.13.4.  Employment.  No Qualified Installer, Maintenance Supervisor
or any other person shall employ any journeylevel plumber for the installation
of plumbing work covered in this Code unless that journeylevel plumber holds a
valid Certificate of Qualification in the proper classification except by
special permission of the Department.  No person shall hire or employ an
apprentice or helper in violation of any provision of this Code.94.103.14. 
Applications.94.103.14.1.  Forms.  Application for any certificate shall be
made on a form furnished by the Department.94.103.14.2.  Information
Necessary.  The application shall bear the name and address of the applicant,
and if a corporation, the names of the principal officers.  The application
shall carry other information deemed necessary by the Department.94.103.14.3. 
Notarization.  The application shall be verified under oath by the
applicant.94.103.14.4.  Fees.  The application shall be accompanied by the
required examination fee as follows:FEE SCHEDULE
  
    
      
        Application
      
      
        Fees
      
    
    
      
        For application for Certificate of Registration	
      
      
        $115.00
      
    
    
      
        For Certificate of Qualification issued as a result of examination given
by Board of Examiners of Plumbing and Gas Fitters	
      
      
        $42.00
      
    
    
      
        For Certificate of Qualification issued under a reciprocal licensing
agreement (Amended by Ord. No. 179,326, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	
      
      
        $42.00
      
    
  
94.103.15.  Examinations.94.103.15.1.  Examination Required.  Before any
person shall be issued a Certificate of Registration or Qualification, he or she
shall have successfully passed the examination required for the issuance of the
Certificate within 90 days preceding the date of issuance.	In lieu of an
examination, the Superintendent of Building may accept a valid journeylevel
plumber qualification certificate issued pursuant to an examination by other
organizations or governmental agencies within the County of Los Angeles,
provided that the examination shall be, in the opinion of the Department,
equivalent in scope and character to the examination for journeylevel plumbers
given by the City of Los Angeles.  The Department’s acceptance of this
certificate shall be in writing and renewable every three years.94.103.15.2. 
Experience Required.  To be eligible for the examination for a Certificate of
Registration, the applicant shall have had at least two years experience as a
journeylevel plumber.	To be eligible for the examination for journeylevel
plumber, the applicant shall have had at least four years experience as an
apprentice or helper.	Special training or education acceptable to the Department
may be credited as the equivalent of up to one year of the required
experience.	The applicant shall be required to furnish satisfactory evidence of
his or her experience and training.94.103.15.3.  Board of Examiners. 
Examinations may be conducted by a Board of Examiners composed of three
qualified persons appointed by the Superintendent of Building.	The results of
every examination shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent of
Building.	Each examiner shall be appointed by the Superintendent of Building.
Each Examiner shall serve for a period of two years unless reappointed by the
Superintendent.	94.103.15.4.  Scope of the Examination.  The examination
shall, in the judgment of the Department, be designed to fairly determine the
ability of the applicant to perform properly the work which he or she would be
authorized to do by the certificate.  The examination shall include a written
part and may also include the following:	(1)	Practical test as may be
required.	(2)	An oral interview as may be required.	(3)	Other tests as may be
required by the Department.94.103.15.5.  Rules and Regulations.  The
Department shall have the authority to establish rules and regulations for the
conduct of examinations.94.103.15.6.  Fitness of Applicant.  Any applicant for
a Certificate may be required to submit satisfactory proof of his or her 
fitness to carry out the intent of this Code.94.103.16.  Issuance of
Certificate.94.103.16.1.  Certificate of Registration.  Every applicant who
passes the required examination for a Maintenance Certificate of Registration or
who registers with the Department the holder of a valid Certificate of
Qualification as a maintenance supervisor shall be issued a Maintenance
Certificate of Registration upon the payment of a fee.94.103.16.2.  Certificate
of Qualification.  Every applicant who passes the required examination for
journeylevel plumber, journeylevel gas fitter or Maintenance Supervisor shall be
issued a Certificate of Qualification upon the payment of a fee.94.103.16.3. 
Every Certificate of Registration or Qualification shall be issued only by the
Department.94.103.16.4.  Public Utility Corporation.  A public utility
corporation engaged in the distribution or sale of gas in the City shall be
issued, without examination, a Certificate of Registration as Master Gas Fitter
upon the payment of a fee as specified in Section 98.0414(b)1.  That public
utility corporation shall be subject to this Code with respect to the certifying
and examination of journeylevel gas fitters.94.103.16.5.  Partnership, Firm and
Corporation.  Upon the payment of a fee as specified in Section 98.0414(b)1, a
partnership firm or corporation may be issued a Certificate of Registration as a
Master Gas Fitter.  If a person in effective authority and control over all
work regulated by Chapter 5 and 12 of the Uniform Plumbing Code has passed the
required examination within the time prescribed by Section 98.0406(a) of this
Code.94.103.17.  Renewal of Certificates.94.103.17.1.  Certificate of
Registration.  Every Certificate of Registration shall expire three years from
the date of issuance.  The certificate may be renewed, upon application, within
the 30 days following the date of expiration upon the payment of a renewal
fee.94.103.17.2.  Certificate of Qualification.  Every Certificate of
Qualification shall expire three years from the date of issuance.  Applications
for renewal shall be made within 30 days following the date of
expiration.94.103.17.3.  Delinquent Certificates.  Expired certificates may be
renewed at any time within 12 months following the date of expiration provided
that, after the first month, the renewal fee shall be increased by 10% for each
month after the first.	After a certificate has been expired for one year, it may
not be renewed.94.103.18.  Exhibition of Certificate.94.103.18.1.  All persons
having a fixed place of business shall keep their Certificates of Registration
posted in some conspicuous portion of their place of business during the time
the Certificate is in force.94.103.18.2.  Every person not having a fixed place
of business shall carry his or her Certificate of Registration at all times
while doing any construction or work regulated by this Code.94.103.18.3.  Every
journeylevel plumber shall carry his or her Certificate of Qualification at all
times while doing any construction or work regulated by this Code.94.103.19. 
Revocation of Certificate.  Any Certificate may be suspended or revoked in
accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of this chapter.94.103.20. 
Transfer of Certificate.  No Certificate shall be transferable.  A Certificate
of Registration issued to a firm or corporation shall be the property of that
firm and may be transferred along with the other assets but may not be
transferred separately.  The dissolution of a firm, partnership, or corporation
renders the Certificate void.
