                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SEISMIC GAS AND EXCESS FLOW SHUT OFF VALVES. (§ 94.1219.0)

  SEISMIC GAS AND EXCESS FLOW SHUT OFF VALVES.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,670, Eff. 6/15/09.)94.1219.1.
Definitions.  For purposes of this section, certain terms shall be defined as
follows:	Downstream of the Gas Utility Meter shall refer to all customer-owned
gas piping, downstream of the by-pass valve, as specified by the public gas
utility company.	Excess Flow Shut Off Valve shall mean a shut off system
activated by significant gas leaks or overpressure surges downstream of the
valve.	Residential Building shall mean any single family dwelling, duplex,
apartment building, condominium, townhouse, lodging house, congregate residence,
or hotel or motel.	Seismic Gas Shut Off Valve shall mean a system consisting of
a seismic sensing means and actuating means designed to automatically actuate a
companion gas shut off means installed in a gas piping system in order to shut
off the gas downstream of the location of the gas shut off means in the event of
a severe seismic disturbance.  The system may consist of separable components
or may incorporate all functions in a single unit.	Upstream of the Gas Utility
Meter shall refer to all gas piping installed by the utility up to and including
the meter and the utility’s bypass tee at the connection to the customer owned
piping.94.1219.2. Scope.  An approved seismic gas shut off valve or excess flow
shut off valve shall be installed downstream of the gas utility meter on each
fuel gas line where the gas line serves the following buildings or
structures:94.1219.2.1. A building or structure containing fuel gas piping for
which a building permit was first issued on or after September 1,
1995.94.1219.2.2. An existing building or structure which is altered or added
to; and94.1219.2.2.1. That building or structure has fuel gas piping supplying
the existing building or structure or the addition to the building or structure;
and94.1219.2.2.2. The alteration or addition is valued at more than $10,000 and
a building permit for the work in commercial buildings was first issued on or
after September 1, 1995.  Alterations or additions to individual units or
tenant spaces shall require a seismic gas shut off valve or excess flow shut off
valve to be installed for all gas piping serving that individual unit or tenant
space; or94.1219.2.2.3. The alteration or addition is valued at more than
$10,000 and a building permit for the work in residential buildings, including
condominium units, is first issued on or after January 10, 1998.  Alterations
or additions to an individual condominium unit shall require a seismic gas shut
off valve or excess flow shut off valve to be installed for all gas piping
serving that individual condominium unit; or94.1219.2.2.4. The alteration or
addition is to the fuel gas piping system and involves the alteration or
replacement of the gas meter.94.1219.2.3. Prior to entering into an agreement of
sale, or prior to the close of escrow when an escrow agreement has been executed
in connection with the sale:	(1)	Buildings or structures which contain fuel gas
piping shall have a seismic gas shut off valve or excess flow shut off valve
installed.	(2)	The sale of an individual condominium unit in a building shall
require the installation of a seismic gas shut off valve or excess flow shut off
valve for all gas piping serving that individual unit.	EXCEPTIONS:	(1)	Seismic
gas shut off valves or excess flow shut off valves may be installed upstream of
a gas utility meter provided they meet the requirements of this
section.	(2)	Seismic gas shut off valves or excess flow shut off valves
installed on a building or structure prior to September 1, 1995, are exempt from
the requirements of this section provided they remain installed on the building
or structure and are maintained for the life of the building or
structure.	(3)	Notwithstanding Subsections 94.1219.2.1, 94.1219.2.2 and
94.1219.2.3 above, these provisions shall not apply to a building or structure
if the Department determines that a building or structure satisfies all three of
the following criteria:	(A)	That the building or structure is owned, operated,
and maintained by a governmental entity or public utility; or that the building
or structure is owned by a private concern and provides a public benefit, such
as a co-generation facility which shares its excess power with a public utility
or with a large industrial facility which has governmental contracts;	(B)	That
the building or structure has available 24-hour, year-round, maintenance
staffing; and	(C)	That the gas piping system contained in the building or
structure is designed to withstand seismic effects of earthquakes.	(4)	A single
seismic gas shut off valve or excess flow shut off valve may be installed
upstream of the gas utility meter at the discretion of the gas
utility.94.1219.3. General Requirements.  Seismic gas shut off valves or excess
flow shut off valves installed either in compliance with Section 94.1219.2, et
seq., or voluntarily with a permit issued on or after September 1, 1995, shall
comply with the following requirements:94.1219.3.1. Seismic gas shut off valves
or excess flow shut off valves shall be installed by a contractor licensed in
the appropriate classification by the State of California.	EXCEPTION:  A person
who has been determined by the Department to meet the qualification of a
Qualified Installer pursuant to the definition of a Qualified Installer set
forth in Division 2 of this Code may install a seismic gas shut off valve or
excess flow shut off valve to a single family dwelling which is or is intended
to be occupied by the Qualified Installer.94.1219.3.2. Seismic gas shut off
valves or excess flow shut off valves shall be mounted rigidly to the exterior,
or other approved location, of the building or structure containing the fuel gas
piping.	EXCEPTION:  If the Department determines that the seismic gas shut off
valve or excess flow shut off valve has been tested and listed for an alternate
method of installation, then the seismic gas shut off valve or excess flow shut
off valve need not be mounted rigidly to the exterior of the building or
structure containing the fuel gas piping.94.1219.3.3. Seismic gas shut off
valves or excess flow shut off valves shall be certified by the Office of the
State Architect.94.1219.3.4. Seismic gas shut off valves or excess flow shut off
valves shall be approved by the Department of Building and Safety, Mechanical
Testing Laboratory.94.1219.3.5. Seismic gas shut off valves or excess flow shut
off valves shall have a thirty year warranty which warrants that the valve is
free from defects and will continue to properly operate for thirty years from
the date of installation.94.1219.3.6. Where seismic gas shut off valves or
excess flow shut off valves are installed as required by this section, they
shall be maintained for the life of the building or structure or be replaced
with a valve complying with the requirements of this section.94.1219.3.7.
Seismic gas shut off valves must be in compliance with all requirements of
California Referenced Standard 12-16-1.94.1219.3.8. Excess flow shut off valves
must be in compliance with all requirements of California Referenced Standard
12-16-2.
