                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NFPA-14. (§ 94.2020.0)

  NFPA-14.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,757, Eff. 7/6/11.)
	NFPA 14-2007 is adopted by reference with the following exceptions,
modifications, and additions:94.2020.1. NFPA 14-2007 Sections 1.3. through 1.3.3
are not adopted.94.2020.2. NFPA 14-2007 Chapter 2 is not adopted.94.2020.3. NFPA
14-2007 Sections 3.2. is adopted by reference, except that the following section
is not adopted:	3.2.2. Authority Having Jurisdiction.94.2020.4. NFPA 14-2007
Sections 3.3.3. through 3.3.3.2. are not adopted.94.2020.5. NFPA 14-2007 Section
4.1.3. is not adopted.94.2020.6. NFPA 14-2007 Section 4.5.1.3. is not
adopted.94.2020.7. NFPA 14-2007 Section 4.6.4. is added and modified to read as
follows:	4.6.4. Nozzles.  Nozzles provided for Class II standpipe outlets shall
be listed variable fog nozzles.94.2020.8. NFPA 14-2007 Section 4.8.2. is added
and modified to read as follows:	4.8.2. Each Fire Department connection shall
have at least two 2-1/2 inch internal threaded swivel fittings having NH
standard threads as specified in NFPA 1963, Standard for Screw Threads and
Gaskets for Fire Hose Connections.	The number of Fire Department hose inlets
shall be at least as required in Table No. 4.8.2 of this chapter. Fire
Department connections shall be equipped with caps to protect against entry of
debris into the system.TABLE 4.8.2
NUMBER OF FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS
  
    
      
        HEIGHT OF HIGHEST OUTLET ABOVE FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION, FEET
      
      
        NUMBER OF FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS
      
    
    
      
        1 or 2 Risers
      
      
        3 or more Risers
      
    
    
      
        Less than 50
      
      
        2
      
      
        2
      
    
    
      
        50 and over
      
      
        4
      
      
        6
      
    
  
94.2020.9. NFPA 14-2007 Section 5.1.3. is added and modified to read as
follows:	5.1.3. The spacing and location of standpipes and hose connections
shall be in accordance with Section 905 of the Building Code.94.2020.10. NFPA
14-2007 Section 5.1.4. is not adopted.94.2020.11. NFPA 14-2007 Section 5.3.3. is
added and modified to read as follows:	5.3.3. Class III Systems. Class III is a
standpipe system directly connected to a water supply and equipped with 2-1/2
inch outlets or 2-1/2 inch and 1-1/2 inch outlets when a 1-1/2 inch hose is
required. Hose connections for Class III systems may be made through 2-1/2 hose
valves with easily removable 2-1/2 inch by 1-1/2 inch reducers.94.2020.12. NFPA
14-2007 Section 5.5.2. is added and modified to read as follows	5.5.2. A valved
outlet for a pressure gauge shall be installed on the upstream and downstream
sides of every pressure regulating device.	EXCEPTION:  Class I and Class III
hose outlets.94.2020.13. NFPA 14-2007 Section 6.1.2.5. is added and modified to
read as follows:	6.1.2.5. To minimize or prevent pipe breakage where subject to
earthquakes, standpipe systems shall be protected in accordance with Section
94.2010 of this Division.94.2020.14. NFPA 14-2007 Section 6.3.4.1. is added and
modified to read as follows:	6.3.4.1. Valves shall be within six feet six inches
of the floor or shall be operable from fixed ladders or clamped tread ladders on
risers, or use chains within six feet six inches of the floor connected to valve
hand wheels or other suitable means.94.2020.15. NFPA 14-2007 Section 6.3.7.1 is
added and modified to read as follows:	6.3.7.1. System water supply valves,
isolation control valves, and other valves in fire mains shall be supervised in
an approved manner in the open position by one of the following
methods:	1.	Where a building has a fire alarm system or a sprinkler monitoring
system installed, the valve shall be supervised by:	a.	A central station,
proprietary, or remote supervising station; or	b.	A local signaling service that
initiates an audible signal at a constantly attended location.	2.	Where a
building does not have a fire alarm system or a sprinkler monitoring system
installed, the valve shall be supervised by:	a.	Locking the valves in the open
position; or	b.	Sealing of valves and a approved weekly recorded inspection
where valves are located within fenced  enclosures under the control of the
owner.94.2020.16. NFPA 14-2007 Section 6.4.5.3 is added and modified to read as
follows:	6.4.5.3. Fire Department inlets shall supply all Class I and Class III
standpipes except for buildings with multiple zones.	In buildings which have
multiple zones, each zone shall be provided with separate inlet
connections.	Where the Fire Department inlet connection does not serve the
entire building, the portions served shall be suitably identified.	The Fire
Department connection shall be adequate to supply the required flow and
pressure.94.2020.17. NFPA 14-2007 Section 7.2.2 is added and modified to read as
follows:	7.2.2. When system pressure-regulating device(s) are used in lieu of
providing separate pumps, multiple zones shall be permitted to be supplied by a
single pumping system and pressure-regulating device(s) under the following
conditions:	1.	Pressure-regulating device(s) shall be permitted to control
pressure in the lower division;	2.	A method to isolate the pressure-regulating
device(s) shall be provided for maintenance and repair;	3.	Regulating devices
shall be arranged so that the failure of any single device does not allow
pressure in excess of 175 psi (12.1 bar) to more than two hose
connections;	4.	An equally sized bypass around the pressure-regulating
device(s), with a normally closed control valve, shall be
installed;	5.	Pressure-regulating device(s) shall be installed not more than 7
ft 6 in (2.31 m) above the floor;	6.	The pressure-regulating device shall be
provided with inlet and outlet pressure gauges;	7.	The fire department
connection(s) shall be connected to the system side of the outlet isolation
valve;	8.	The pressure-regulating device shall be provided with a pressure
relief valve in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations;	9.	Remote
monitoring and supervision for detecting high pressure failure of the
pressure-regulating device shall be provided in accordance with NFPA 72,
National Fire Alarm Code; and	10.	The pumping system shall be adequate when
three pumps are out of operation.94.2020.18. NFPA 14-2007 Section 7.3.1.1 is
added and modified to read as follows:	7.3.1.1. Fire Department Outlets.  Fire
Department outlets shall be installed so as to be easily accessible for use by
the Fire Department. Hose connections and hose stations shall be located not
less than three feet or more than five feet above the floor.  A wrench
clearance on all sides of the outlet shall be provided to insure that a 12-inch
long wrench can be used to connect hose to outlet.  There shall be at least
one-inch clearance around the hose valve handle.  Outlets shall be provided
with a listed hose valve protected by a 2-1/2 inch by 1-1/2 inch reducer and
1-1/2 inch cap and attachment chain.94.2020.19. NFPA 14-2007 Section 7.3.2 is
added and modified to read as follows:	7.3.2. Class I Systems. Class I systems
shall be provided with 2-1/2 in. (65mm) hose connections in the following
locations:	1.	At the main floor landing in exit stairways;	2.	On each side of
the wall adjacent to the exit openings of horizontal exits;	3.	In other than
covered mall buildings, in each exit passageway at the entrance from the
building areas to the passageway;	4.	In covered mall buildings, at the entrance
to each exit passageway or exit corridor, and at the interior side of public
entrances from the exterior to the mall; and	5.	At the highest landing of
stairways with stairway access to a roof, or on roofs with a slope of less than
4 in 12 where stairways do not access the roof.94.2020.20. NFPA 14-2007Section
7.9 is added and modified to read as follows:	7.9. System Zoning
Requirements.	7.9.2. Height Limit.  Buildings shall be zoned so that standpipe
system risers do not exceed 275 feet in height unless control of the nozzle
pressure under both flow and static conditions is attained at each standpipe
outlet by the installation of a listed pressure-regulating device and provided
further that all of the following three limitations are met:	1.	The pressure on
the listed pressure-regulating device inlet side is not in excess of the rated
working pressure of the listed pressure-regulating device and the remaining
portions of the standpipe system are rated for not less than the maximum system
pressure;	2.	The hose valve outlet pressure is limited as required in Section
7.2.1.2 of NFPA-14; and	3.	The zone height does not exceed 400 feet.	7.9.3.
Zoned systems shall comply with Alternate 1 or 2, below:	1.	Alternate 1.  The
pumping system shall be adequate when three pumps are out of
operation.	2.	Alternate 2.  Design shall comply with the following:  When fire
pumps are required, separate fire pumps shall be required to serve each zone. 
Fire pumps that individually serve separate zones and which are located at the
same level may be installed in series.  Fire pumps installed in series shall
serve each zone independently.	7.9.3.1. and 7.9.3.2. are not adopted.	7.9.4.
Direct supply piping from the higher-zone fire pump to the higher-zone system
piping shall be provided when the fire pump for the higher zone is on the same
level as the fire pump serving the lower zone.  Two direct supply lines shall
be provided to each zone with two or more standpipes.  The size of the direct
supply piping to each zone shall be not less than the size of the largest
standpipe riser served.	Lower-zone standpipe piping may be used to supply the
higher zone and shall not be less than the size of the largest standpipe riser
of the higher-zone system that is being supplied.  The two zones shall be
connected by a minimum of two supply pipes of which one shall be automatically
providing water to the higher zone from the lower zone.  A secondary method of
supply is required when a residual pressure of 100 psi cannot be
provided.	7.9.4.1 is not adopted.94.2020.21. NFPA 14-2007 Section 7.10.1.3.1.1
is added and modified to read as follows:	7.10.1.3.1.1. Where the sprinkler
system water supply requirement, including the water stream allowance as
determined in accordance with Section 2010 of this Division, exceeds the system
demand established by Sections 7.7 and 7.10.1 of NFPA-14, the larger of the two
values shall be provided.94.2020.22. NFPA 14-2007 Subsections (3) and (5) of
Section 9.1.5 are not adopted.94.2020.23. NFPA 14-2007 Section 9.2.1 is added
and modified to read as follows:	9.2.1. Buildings Over 150 Feet
High.	1.	Redundancy.  The system shall be adequate when either one pump, one
pump driver, one riser or zone pressure regulator is out of
operation.	2.	Power.  Pumps shall be either diesel engine or electric motor
driven. Electric fire pump motors shall be supplied from normal and the
emergency standby power system.  At least 750 g.p.m. shall be supplied by an
electric motor driven pump.	If water flow requirements call for more than one
pump to start, the normal and emergency power shall be sized to run all pumps at
the same time.  The normal and emergency power system shall have adequate
capacity and rating for all loads, including the redundant pump(s) to be
operated simultaneously.  The controller for each unit of multiple pumps shall
incorporate a sequential timing device to prevent any one driver from starting
simultaneously with any other.  Failure of a leading driver to start shall not
prevent subsequent drivers from starting.  Locking out of motors is
prohibited.94.2020.24. NFPA 14-2007 Section 11.2.3 is added and modified to read
as follows:	11.2.3. Flushing the System Risers.  Water shall flow from the
topmost outlet of each riser until the system is clear of all debris.	11.2.3.1.
Roof Outlets.  Standpipe systems shall be designed so that all risers can be
flushed through outlets located on the roof.	11.2.3.2. Flow.  All standpipe
risers shall be flushed individually through the roof at residual pressure of at
least 65 psi until the system is clear of debris.  The flow for Class I and
Class III standpipes shall be at least 500 g.p.m. through each riser.94.2020.25.
NFPA 14-2007 Section 11.5.6.3 is added and modified to read as
follows:	11.5.6.3. Pressure Regulator Valve Test.	11.5.6.3.1. Test Required. 
When required by the Department, 2-1/2 inch pressure regulator valves installed
on standpipe outlets shall be tested for proper operation at a flow of 300
g.p.m. with a residual pressure of 125 psi in the presence of a representative
of the Department.	11.5.6.3.2. Safety.  Test nozzles and other equipment shall
be adequately secured so as to eliminate danger to personnel.	11.5.6.3.3.
Opening.  An accessible 2-1/2 inch capped or plugged test opening shall be
installed adjacent to each pressure regulator valve.	11.5.6.3.4. Drain.  The
test openings shall drain to a minimum 3-inch drain line constructed and
installed as required for fire sprinkler drains.  The drains shall not
discharge where they may cause damage.  Where available, drains shall terminate
to the fire water storage tank. 	11.5.6.3.5. Interconnection.  The test drain
shall either be separate or connect to a fire sprinkler drain to a fire
protection tank.94.2020.26. NFPA 14-2007 Chapter 12 is added and modified to
read as follows:	Buildings Under Construction.	12.1. General. During the
construction of a building and until the permanent fire-extinguishing system has
been installed and is in service, fire protection shall be provided in
accordance with this section.	12.2. Where required.  Every building four
stories or more in height shall be provided with at least one standpipe for use
during construction.  The standpipes shall be installed when the progress of
construction is not more than 40 feet (12.19 m) in height above the lowest level
of Fire Department access.  The standpipe shall be provided with Fire
Department hose connections at accessible locations adjacent to usable stairs
and the standpipe outlets shall be located adjacent to those usable stairs. 
The standpipe systems shall be extended as construction progresses to within one
floor of the highest point of construction having secured decking or
flooring.	In each floor there shall be provided a 2-1/2 inch (63.5 mm) valve
outlet for Fire Department use.  Where construction height requires
installation of a Class III standpipe, fire pumps and water main connections
shall be provided to serve the standpipe.	12.3. Temporary Standpipes. 
Temporary Standpipes may be provided in place of permanent systems if they are
designed to furnish a minimum of 500 gallons (1893 L) of water per minute at 50
pounds per square inch (345 kPa) pressure with a standpipe size of at least four
inches (102 mm).  All pumping equipment sufficient to provide this pressure and
volume shall be available at all times when a Class III standpipe system is
required.	12.4. Detailed Requirements.  Standpipe Systems for buildings under
construction shall be installed as required for permanent Standpipe Systems.
