                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NFPA-13. (§ 94.2010.0)

  NFPA-13.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,757, Eff. 7/6/11.)	NFPA 13-2010 is adopted by
reference with the following exceptions and modifications.94.2010.1. NFPA
13-2010 Section 1.4 is not adopted.94.2010.2. NFPA 13-2010 Section 3.2 is
adopted by reference except that the following sections are not adopted:	3.2.2.
Authority Having Jurisdiction.	3.2.6. Standard.94.2010.3. NFPA 13-2010 Section
5.1.3 is added and modified to read as follows:	5.1.3. Classification of
Occupancies. For the purpose of determining the level of protection to be
provided by required sprinkler system installations, Table No. 5.1 of this
Chapter shall be used.	For hazard classification other than those indicated, see
appropriate nationally recognized standards for design criteria.	When fire
sprinkles systems are required in buildings of undetermined use, they shall be
designed and installed to have a sprinkler density of not less than that
required of an Ordinary Hazard Group 2 use with a minimum design area of 3,000
square feet. Use is considered undetermined if not specified at the time of
permit issued.	Where a subsequent occupancy requires a system with a greater
capability, it shall be the responsibility of the occupant and/or owner to
upgrade the system to the required density for the new occupancy.	5.1.3.1. Group
H, Division 5 Occupancies.  Where the design area of the sprinklers system
consists of a corridor protected by one row of sprinklers, the maximum number of
sprinkler required to be calculated is 13.	5.1.3.2. Group L Occupancies. 
Research laboratories and similar areas of group L occupancy shall not be less
than that required for Ordinary Hazard Group 2 with a design area of not less
than 3,000 square feet (279 m2).TABLE NO. 5.1
HAZARD CLASSIFICATION
  
    
      
        
        OCCUPANCY OF BUILDING OR PORTION OF BUILDING
      
      
        HAZARD CLASSIFICATION
      
    
    
      
        Group A Occupancies used as meeting rooms, library reading rooms,
restaurant seating areas, clubs, theaters, museums, health clubs, educational
classrooms and churches.
Group B Occupancies used as offices, data processing areas, colleges and
universities.
Group E Occupancies other than shops and laboratories.
Group I Occupancy living and sleeping areas
Group R, Division I Occupancies.1  Typically, one would expect that these uses
are such that the quantity and combustibility of contents results in relatively
low-rate-of-heat-release fires.
      
      
        Light
      
    
    
      
        Groups B, F, S and U Occupancies used for light manufacturing,
commercial kitchens, laundries, automobile parking garages, bakeries, canneries,
electronic plants, beverage manufacturing and glass products manufacturing
plants not producing dust or fibers.  In mixed occupancies housing group L
occupancies, the portions of the building not classified as group L occupancy. 
Typically these uses are such that the quantity of combustibles is relatively
low, the combustibility of contents is moderate, storage does not exceed 8 feet
in height, and moderate-rate-of-heat-release fires would be expected.
      
      
        Ordinary
Group 1
      
    
    
      
        Groups B, F, M, and S Occupancies used for chemical plant laboratories,
mercantile, machine shops, printing plants, library stack areas, metal working,
wood product assembly, textile manufacturing, confectionery products, cold
storage warehouses,2 cereal mills, service stations and repair garages. 
Typically these uses are such that the quantity of combustibles is moderate. 
The combustibility of contents is moderate, storage does not exceed 12 feet in
height 2 and moderate-rate-of-heat-release fires would be expected. 
Also:
Group A Occupancies such as exhibition halls.
Groups B, F and S Occupancies used as tobacco products manufacturing, paper and
pulp mills, piers and wharfs, and warehousing2 of higher combustible contents
(including packaging).
Group H Occupancies used as feed mills, tire manufacturing, chemical plants,
repair garages and woodworking.  Group H, Division 5 Occupancies, except
storage rooms with dispensing.  Research laboratories and similar areas of
group L occupancy. Typically these uses are such that high-rate-of-heat-release
fires would be expected and the spread of fire would be rapid.
      
      
        Ordinary
Group 2
      
    
    
      
        Group H Occupancies used for printing (using inks with flashpoints below
100 degrees F.) combustible hydraulic fluid-use areas such as die casting and
metal extruding, upholstering with plastic foam, rubber reclaiming, compounding,
drying, milling, vulcanizing, plywood and particle board manufacturing, saw
mills, textile picking, opening, blending, garneting, carding and combining of
cotton, synthetics, wool shoddy or burlap.   Typically these uses are such that
a significant fire hazard exists.
      
      
        Extra Hazard
Group 1
      
    
    
      
        Group H Occupancies used as asphalt saturating, flammable liquids
spraying, flow coating, open oil quenching, varnish and paint dipping, solvent
cleaning and manufactured home or modular building manufacturing (where the
finished building enclosure is present and has combustible interiors). Storage
rooms with dispensing located in Group H, Division 5 Occupancies.  These uses
are such that a severe fire hazard exits.
      
      
        Extra Hazard
Group 2 3
      
    
  
	1  See also Section 8.4.5 of NFPA 13-2010.
	2  For high-piled storage, see NFPA 13-2010.
	3  For additional and more stringent criteria, see California Fire Code
Chapters 27, 28, 34, and the Los Angeles Fire Code.94.2010.4. NFPA 13-2010
Section 6.1.1.2 is not adopted and NFPA 13-2010 Section 6.1.1.1 is modified to
read as follows:	6.1.1.1. All materials and devices shall be listed and
approved.94.2010.5. NFPA 13-2010 Section 6.3.6.1 is added and modified to read
as follows:	6.3.6.1. Other types of pipe or tube, such as plastic, may be used
if it is investigated and found to be listed for this service.94.2010.6. NFPA
13-2010 Section 6.7.1.3.3 is not adopted.94.2010.7. NFPA 13-2010 Section 6.9.1
is added and modified to read as follows:	6.9.1. Waterflow alarm apparatus shall
be listed for the service and constructed and installed so that any flow of
water from a sprinkler system equal to or greater than that from a single
automatic sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed on the system shall
result in an audible alarm on the premises within two minutes after the flow
begins.94.2010.8. NFPA 13-2010 Section 6.9.4.1 is added and modified to read as
follows:	6.9.4.1. Electrically operated alarm attachments forming part of an
auxiliary, proprietary, remote station or local signaling system shall be
installed in accordance with the Los Angeles Fire Code.94.2010.9. NFPA 13-2010
Section 8.15.1.2.9 is added and modified to read as follows:	8.15.1.2.9.
Concealed spaces with volumes not exceeding 160 cubic feet above a room or
aggregate of rooms not exceeding 55 square feet in area, shall not require
sprinkler protection.94.2010.10. Reserved.94.2010.11. Reserved.94.2010.12.
Reserved.94.2010.13. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.15.1.2.15 is added and modified to
read as follows:	8.15.1.2.15. Exterior columns under 10 ft2 (0.93 m2) in total
area, formed by studs or wood joist, with no sources of ignition within the
column, supporting exterior canopies that are fully protected with a sprinkler
system, shall not require sprinkler protection.94.2010.14. NFPA 13-2010 Sections
8.15.4.1 through 8.15.4.5 are not adopted and Section 8.15.4 is added and
modified to read as follows:	8.15.4. Water curtains shall consist of closely
spaced sprinklers in combination with draft stops. The draft stops shall be
located immediately adjacent to the opening shall be at least 18 inches deep and
shall be of noncombustible or limited-combustible material that will stay in
place before and during sprinkler operation.  Sprinklers shall be spaced not
more than six feet apart and placed six to 12 inches from the draft stop on the
side away from the opening.  Where sprinklers are closer than six feet, cross
baffles shall be provided in accordance with Section 8.6.3.4.2 of
NFPA-13.94.2010.15. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.15.7.1 is added and modified to read
as follows:	8.15.7.1. Unless the requirements of 8.15.7.2  and 8.15.7.3 are met
sprinklers shall be installed under exterior roofs, canopies, porte-cocheres,
balconies, decks or similar projections exceeding 4 ft (1.2 m) in
width.94.2010.16. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.15.7.2 is added and modified to read as
follows:	8.15.7.2. Sprinklers shall be permitted to be omitted where the
canopies, roofs, balconies, decks, or similar projections are constructed with
materials that are noncombustible, limited-combustible, or fire retardant
treated wood as defined in NFPA 703, Standard for Fire Retardant-Treated Wood
and Fire Retardant Coatings for Building Materials.94.2010.17. NFPA 13-2010
Section 8.15.7.3 is added and modified to read as follows:	8.15.7.3. Sprinklers
shall be permitted to be omitted from below the canopies, roofs, balconies,
decks, or similar projections of combustible construction, provided the exposed
finish material on the roof, or canopy, is noncombustible, limited-combustible,
or fire retardant treated wood as defined in NFPA 703, Standard for Fire
Retardant-Treated Wood and Fire-Retardant Coatings for Building Materials, and
the roofs, or canopies, contains only sprinklered concealed spaces or any of the
following unsprinklered combustible concealed spaces:	1.	Combustible concealed
spaces filled entirely with noncombustible insulation.	2.	Light or ordinary
hazard occupancies where noncombustible or limited-combustible ceilings are
directly attached to the bottom of solid wood joists so as to create enclosed
joist spaces 160 ft3 (4.5 m3) or less in volume, including space below
insulation that is laid directly on top or within the ceiling joists in an
otherwise sprinklered attic [See 11.2.3.1.4(4)(d)].	3.	Concealed spaces over
isolated small roofs, or canopies, not exceeding 55 ft2.94.2010.18. NFPA 13-2010
Section 8.15.7.4 is not adopted.94.2010.19. Reserved.94.2010.20. NFPA 13-2010
Section 8.16.1.1.1.4 is added and modified to read as follows:	8.16.1.1.1.4.
Where a system includes floor control valves, a hydraulic design information
sign containing information for the floor shall be provided at each floor
control valve.  A hydraulic design information sign shall be provided for each
area calculated.  The installing contractor shall identify a hydraulically
designed sprinkler system with a permanently marked weatherproof metal or rigid
plastic sign secured with corrosion resistant wire, chain, or other approved
means.  Such signs shall be placed at the alarm valve, dry pipe valve,
pre-action valve, or deluge valve supplying the corresponding hydraulically
designed area.94.2010.21. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.16.1.1.1.5 is added and
modified to read as follows:	8.16.1.1.1.5. Control valves, check valves, drain
valves, antifreeze valves shall be readily accessible for inspection, testing,
and maintenance.  Valves located more than 6′-6&#038;″ above the finished
floor shall be provided with a means of opening and closing the valve from the
floor level.94.2010.22. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.16.1.1.2.5 is added and modified
to read as follows:	8.16.1.1.2.5. All valves controlling the water supply for
automatic sprinkler systems and water-flow switches on all sprinkler systems
shall be electrically monitored where required by the Los Angeles Building Code
Section 91.903.4 and 91.903.4.1.	EXCEPTION:  Underground key or hub valves in
roadway boxes provided by the municipality or public utility need not be
monitored.94.2010.23. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.16.1.1.7 is added and modified to
read as follows:	8.16.1.1.7. Valve Access.  All valves controlling water
supplies for sprinkler systems or portions of the system shall be accessible. 
These valves shall be within six feet six inches of the floor or shall be
operable from fixed ladders or clamped tread ladders on risers, or use chains
within six feet six inches of the floor connected to valve hand wheels or other
suitable means.  All valves shall be provided with adequate clearance for
normal operation.94.2010.24. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.16.1.1.9 is added and
modified to read as follows:	8.16.1.1.9. Floor (Level) Control Valves.	1.	Where
required.  In buildings with over two levels or two floors, a supervised valve
capable of independently controlling the fire sprinkler system on each level,
penthouse, roof structure, mezzanine and basement shall be installed.  The
maximum area covered by a single floor control valve shall not exceed the areas
specified in section 8.2 of NFPA 13-2010.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Floor control valves
need not be provided for levels, penthouses, roof structures, mezzanines and
basement with 20 or fewer fire sprinklers.	2.	In partially sprinklered
buildings, sprinklers serving window openings along an exit way or property
line, or stair shafts and adjacent doors may have a sectional control valve to
control the system in each of these areas instead of a floor control
valve.	3.	Valves required for hazardous locations may be located downstream of
floor control valves.	4.	One- and two-family dwellings.	2.	Locations.  Floor
control valves shall be within a stairway enclosure or within the vestibule or
on the access balcony of a smoke proof enclosure.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	In buildings
with three or fewer stories or where there is no stairway that serves a floor,
control valves may be located elsewhere on the floor level.	2.	Unenclosed
stairways in parking garages.94.2010.25. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.16.1.1.10 is
added and modified to read as follows:	8.16.1.1.10. Special Hazard Locations and
Hazardous Occupancies.  The piping serving each linen chute, each paint spray
booth, each trash chute, including trash room, and each separate trash room
shall be controlled by valves that control no other sprinklers.94.2010.26. NFPA
13-2010 Section 8.16.1.2.6 is added and modified to read as follows:	8.16.1.2.6.
Identification Pressure Regulators.  Signs shall be posted at pressure
regulators for fire sprinklers stating the required setting of the pressure
regulator.94.2010.27. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.16.1.5.1 is added and modified to
read as follows:	8.16.1.5.1. Private fire service main systems shall have
sectional fire control valves at appropriate points in order to permit
sectionalizing the system in the event of break or for the making of repairs or
extensions.94.2010.28. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.16.1.5.1.1 is added and modified
to read as follows:	8.16.1.5.1.1. Sectional control valves are not required when
the fire service main system serves less than six fire appurtenances.94.2010.29.
NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.16.1.5.1.2. is added and modified to read as
follows:	8.16.1.5.1.2. Sectional control valves shall be indicating valves in
accordance with Section 6.7.1.3. NFPA 13-2010.94.2010.30. NFPA 13-2010 Section
8.16.1.5.1.3. is added and modified to read as follows:	8.16.1.5.1.3. Sectional
control valves shall be located so that no more than five fire appurtenances are
affected by shut-down of any single portion of the fire service main.  Each
fire hydrant, fire sprinkler system riser, and standpipe riser shall be
considered a separate fire appurtenance.  In-rack sprinkler systems shall not
be considered as a separate appurtenance.94.2010.31. NFPA 13-2010 Section
8.16.1.5.1.4 is added and modified to read as follows:	8.16.1.5.1.4. The number
of fire appurtenances between sectional control valves is allowed to be modified
by the authority having jurisdiction.94.2010.32. NFPA 13-2010 Section
8.16.1.5.1.5 is added and modified to read as follows:	8.16.1.5.1.5. Looped
underground systems shall be provided with sectional valves regardless of the
number of appurtenances.94.2010.33. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.16.1.5.2 is added and
modified to read as follows:	8.16.1.5.2. A valve shall be provided on each bank
where a main crosses a body of water or outside the building foundation(s) where
the main or section of main runs under a building.94.2010.34. NFPA 13-2010
Section 8.16.4.2.4 is not adopted.94.2010.35. NFPA 13-2010 Section 8.17.1.1 is
added and modified to read as follows:	8.17.1.1. Local water-flow alarms shall
be provided on each sprinkler system having more than five sprinklers and shall
be located in an area approved by the Administrative Authority.94.2010.36. NFPA
13-2010 Sections 9.1.1.2 and 9.1.1.3 are not adopted, and NFPA 13-2010 Section
9.1.1.1 is added and modified to read as follows:	9.1.1.1. General.  Types of
hangers shall be in accordance with the requirements of Section 9.1 of NFPA
13-2010.	EXCEPTION:  Hangers designed by a registered structural or civil
engineer for lateral loads in accordance with Section 1613 of the Building Code
and the requirements of Section 9.3.7 of NFPA 13-2010 shall be
acceptable.94.2010.37. NFPA 13-2010 Section 9.1.1.4.3 is added and modified to
read as follows:	9.1.1.4.3. Fasteners as specified in 9.1.4 and 9.1.5 shall be
permitted to be not listed.94.2010.38. NFPA 13-2010 Section 9.1.3.1 is added and
modified to read as follows:	9.1.3.1. Unless prohibited by 9.1.3.2 or 9.1.3.3,
the use of listed inserts set in concrete and listed post- installed anchors to
support hangars shall be permitted for mains and branch lines provided they meet
the requirements of the LABC Sections 91.1613 and 91.1912 and require special
inspection as required by Section 91.1704 of the LABC and installed in
conformance with all listing requirements.94.2010.39. NFPA 13-2010 Section
9.1.3.9.1.1 is added and modified to read as follows:	9.1.3.9.1.1. Powder-driven
studs used for attaching hangers to the building structure are prohibited in
Seismic design Categories C, D, E and F.94.2010.40. NFPA 13-2010 Section
9.3.5.6.1 is added and modified to read as follows:	9.3.5.6.1. Unless the
requirements of section 9.3.5.6.2 are met, the horizontal loads for braces shall
be determined by analysis based on horizontal force of Fp=0.76 Wp, where Fp is
the horizontal force factor and Wp is 1.15 times the weight of the water filled
piping.94.2010.41. NFPA 13-2010 Section 9.3.5.8.7 is added and modified to read
as follows:	9.3.5.8.7. Where pipe is used for sway bracing, it shall have a wall
thickness of not less than Schedule 40. The loads determined in 9.3.5.6 shall
not exceed the lesser of the maximum  allowable loads provided in Table
9.3.5.8.7(a), Table 9.3.5.8.7(b), and Table 9.3.5.8.7(c) or the manufacturer’s
certified maximum allowable horizontal loads for 30- to 44-degree, 45- to
59-degree, 60- to 89-degree, and 90-degree brace angles.94.2010.42. NFPA 13-2010
Section 9.3.5.8.10 is not adopted.94.2010.43. NFPA 13-2010 Section 9.3.5.9.4 is
added and modified to read as follows:	9.3.5.9.4. Where lag screws or
power-driven fasteners shall not be used to attach sway braces to the building
structure.94.2010.44. NFPA 13-2010 Section 9.3.5.9.6 is added and modified to
read as follows:	9.3.5.9.6. Fastening methods other than those identified in
9.3.5.9 and 9.3.5.8.10 shall not apply to other fastening methods, which shall
be acceptable for use if certified by a registered professional engineer to
support the loads determined in accordance with the criteria in 9.3.5.6.
Calculations shall be submitted to the authority having jurisdiction.94.2010.45.
NFPA 13-2010 Section 9.3.5.9.7.2 is added and modified to read as
follows:	9.3.5.9.7.2. Concrete anchors other than those shown in Figure
9.3.5.9.1 and identified in 9.3.5.8.10 shall be acceptable for use where
designed in accordance with the requirements of the building code and certified
by a registered professional engineer. 94.2010.46. NFPA 13-2010 Section
9.3.6.1(3) is added and modified to read as follows:	9.3.6.1(3). No. 12,440 lb
(200Kg) wire installed at least 45 degrees from the vertical plane and anchored
on both sides of the pipe. Powder-driven fasteners for attaching restraint are
allowed to be used provided that the restraint component does not support the
dead load.94.2010.47. NFPA 13-2010 Section 9.3.7.7 is not adopted.94.2010.48.
NFPA 13-2010 Section 9.3.7.9 is amended and modified to read as
follows:	9.3.7.9. The systems are required to be protected against earthquakes
using a horizontal force factor exceeding 0.50 Wp, where Wp is the weight of the
water-filled pipe.94.2010.49. NFPA 13-2010 Section 10.6.5. is added and modified
to read as follows:	10.6.5. Pipe joints shall not be located under foundation
footings.  The pipe under the building or building foundation shall not contain
mechanical joints.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Where allowed in accordance with
10.6.2;	2.	Alternate designs may be utilized where designed by a registered
professional engineer and approved by the enforcing agency.94.2010.50. NFPA
13-2010 Section 10.9.1 is added and modified to read as follows:	10.9.1.
Backfill shall be well tamped in layers or puddle under and around pipes to
prevent settlement or lateral movement.  Backfill shall consist of clean fill
sand or pea gravel to a minimum of 6&#038;″ below and to a minimum of
12&#038;″ above the pipe and shall contain no ashes cinders, refuse, organic
matter, or other corrosive materials.  Other backfill materials and methods are
permitted where designed by a registered professional engineer and approved by
the enforcing agency.94.2010.51. NFPA 13-2010 Section 11.1.6.6 is added and
modified to read as follows:	11.1.6.6. When hose valves for Fire Department use
are attached to wet pipe sprinkler system risers in accordance with Section
8.17.5.2 of NFPA 13-2010:	1.	The water supply shall not be required to be added
to the standpipe demand as determined from Section 94.2020 of this chapter.	2.	
Where the combined sprinkler system demand and hose stream allowance of Table
11.2.3.1.2 of NFPA 13-2010 exceeds the requirements of Section 94.2020 of this
division, this higher demand shall be used.	3.	 For partially sprinklered
buildings, the sprinkler demand, not including hose stream allowance, as
indicated in Table 11.2.3.1.1 of NFPA 13-2010, shall be added to the
requirements given in Section 94.2020 of this Division.94.2010.52. NFPA 13-2010
Section 11.2.3.1.4(4)(i) is added and modified to read as
follows:	11.2.3.1.4(4)(i). Exterior columns under 10 ft2 (0.93 m2) in total
area, formed by studs or wood joist, with no sources of ignition within the
column, supporting exterior canopies that are fully protected with a sprinkler
system.94.2010.53. NFPA 13-2010 Section 11.2.3.2.3.1 is added and modified to
read as follows:	11.2.3.2.3.1. Where listed quick-response sprinklers, excluding
extended coverage quick-response sprinklers, are used throughout a system or
portion of a system having the same hydraulic design basis, the system area of
operation shall be permitted to be reduced without revising the density as
indicated in Figure 11.2.3.2.3.1 when all of the following conditions are
satisfied:	1.	 Wet pipe system;	2.	Light hazard occupancy;	3.	20 ft (6.1 m)
maximum ceiling height; and	4.	There are no unprotected ceiling pockets as
allowed by Sections 8.6.7 and 8.8.7 exceeding 32 ft2 (3 m2).94.2010.54. NFPA
13-2010 Section 11.2.3.2.3.2 is added and modified to read as
follows:	11.2.3.2.3.2. The number of sprinklers in the design area shall never
be less than seven.94.2010.55. NFPA 13-2010 Section 11.3.3.5 is added and
modified to read as follows:	11.3.3.5. When the water curtain is located in an
otherwise un-sprinklered area, the design shall include all the sprinklers in
each fire separation area being protected.94.2010.56. NFPA 13-2010 Section
12.2.1 is added and modified to read as follows:	12.2.1. Except as allowed by
section 12.2.2, small hose connections 1 1/2 (38 mm) shall be provided where the
system is not subject to freezing in accordance with 8.17.5 for
first-aid-fire-fighting and overhaul operations.94.2010.57. NFPA 13-2010 Section
23.1.7 is not adopted.94.2010.58. NFPA 13-2010 Section 24.1 is added and
modified to read as follows:	24.1. Approval of Sprinkler Systems and Private
Fire Service Mains.  The installing contractor shall do the
following:	1.	Notify the authority having jurisdiction and the property owner or
property owner’s authorized representative of the time and date testing will
be performed;	2.	Perform all required testing (see Section 24.2);	3.	Complete
and sign the appropriate contractor’s material and test certificate(s) (see
Figure 24.1);	4.	Remove all caps and straps prior to placing the sprinkler
system in service; and	5.	Upon system acceptance by the authority having
jurisdiction a label prescribed by Title 19 California Code of Regulations,
Chapter 5 shall be affixed to each system riser.94.2010.59. NFPA 13-2010 Section
24.4 is added and modified to read as follows:	24.4. Instructions.  The
installing contractor shall provide the property owner or the property owner’s
authorized representative with the following:	1.	 All literature and
instructions provided by the manufacturer describing proper operation and
maintenance of any equipment and devices installed;	2. 	NFPA 25, Standard for
the inspection, testing, and maintenance of Water-Based Fire Protection Systems,
2006 California Edition; and	3.	Title 19, California Code of Regulations,
Chapter 5, “Fire Extinguishing Systems.”94.2010.60. NFPA 13-2010 Section
24.5.1 is added and modified to read as follows:	24.5.1. “Pipe schedule
systems shall be provided with a sign indicating that the system was designed
and installed as a pipe schedule system and the hazard classification(s)
included in the design.”94.2010.61. NFPA 13-2010 Section 24.5.2 is added and
modified to read as follows:	24.5.2. The sign shall include the following
information:	1.	Location of the design area or areas;	2.	Discharge densities
over the design area or areas;	3.	 Required flow and pressure of the system at
the base of the riser;	4.	Presence of high piled storage;	5.	Maximum height of
storage planned;	6.	Aisle width planned;	7.	Required flow and pressure of the
system at the water supply source;	8.	Required flow and pressure of the system
at the discharge side of the fire pump where a fire pump is installed;	9.	Type
or types and number of sprinklers or nozzles installed including the orifice
size, temperature rating, orientation, K-Factor, Sprinkler Identification Number
(SIN) for sprinkler heads when applicable and response type;	10.	The minimum
discharge flow rate and pressure required from the hydraulically most demanding
sprinkler;	11.	The required pressure settings for pressure reducing
valves;	12.	For deluge sprinkler systems, the required flow and pressure at the
hydraulically most demanding sprinkler or nozzle;	13.	The protection area per
sprinkler based on the hydraulic calculations; and	14.	The edition of NFPA 13 to
which the system was designed and installed.
