                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE PUMPS AND DRIVERS. (§ 94.2030.0)

  FIRE PUMPS AND DRIVERS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,757, Eff. 7/6/11.)	FIRE PUMPS AND DRIVERS.  Fire
pumps, their drivers and associated piping and equipment shall conform to the
requirements set forth in NFPA 20-2007 with the following exceptions and
modifications:94.2030.1. NFPA 20-2007 Sections 1.4 through 1.4.3 are not
adopted.94.2030.2. NFPA 20-2007 Sections 5.7.1 is added and modified to read as
follows:	5.7.1. Fire pumps, equipment used with fire pumping systems, devices
and attachments shall be listed.  A copy of the manufacturer’s certified pump
test characteristic curve shall be available for comparison of results of field
acceptance tests.  The fire pump as installed shall equal the performance as
indicated on the manufacturer’s certified shop test characteristic curve
within the accuracy limits of the test equipment.94.2030.3. NFPA 20-2007
Sections 5.11.1.4 is added and modified to read as follows:	5.11.1.4. The relief
valve shall discharge to an approved location.94.2030.4. NFPA 20-2007 Sections
5.14.2.1 is added and modified to read as follows:	5.14.2.1. General. 
Installation of above-ground suction piping shall conform to the requirements
for fire sprinkler piping.94.2030.5. NFPA 20-2007 Sections 5.14.4.1 is added and
modified to read as follows:	5.14.4.1. Pump Bypass.  A full-way pump bypass
with check valve shall be connected downstream of the fire pump shutoff valve
when available pressure will supply useful protection with the pump off.  There
shall be two control valves to isolate check valves in each bypass.94.2030.6.
NFPA 20-2007 Sections 5.14.11 is added and modified to read as follows:	5.14.11.
Fire Department Connections. Fire Department connections shall not be connected
on the suction side of the fire pump.94.2030.7. NFPA 20-2007 Section 5.17 is
added and modified to read as follows:	5.17. Protection of Piping Against Damage
Due to Movement. Clearance for the piping shall conform to the requirements of
Section 9.3.4 of NFPA 13-2010.94.2030.8. NFPA 20-2007 Sections 5.19.2 through
5.19.2.3.3 are not adopted.94.2030.9. NFPA 20-2007 Section 5.19.3.1.4 is added
and modified to read as follows:	5.19.3.1.4. The discharge from the test header
shall terminate to the fire water storage tank where available.94.2030.10. NFPA
20-2007 Sections 5.19.3.5 is added and modified to read as follows:	5.19.3.5.
Label. Test headers hose valves shall be labeled “TEST
CONNECTIONS.”	EXCEPTION:  Temporary Fire Pumps and Outlets.94.2030.11. NFPA
20-2007 Sections 5.24.8 is added and modified to read as follows:	5.24.8.
Pressure Maintenance (Jockey or Makeup) Pumps.  A pressure maintenance pump
shall be installed with each fire pump system.	EXCEPTION:  Fire pump serving
class II standpipes, temporary standpipes and fire pumps serving fire systems in
one and two-dwelling family dwellings.94.2030.12. NFPA 20-2007 Section 5.30.1
(1) is not adopted.94.2030.13. Chapter 9 of NFPA 20-2007 is not
adopted.94.2030.14. NFPA 20-2007 Sections 10.1 through 10.4.8 are not
adopted.94.2030.15. NFPA 20-2007 Sections 10.6 through 10.10.11 are not
adopted.94.2030.16. NFPA 20-2007 Section 11.4 is added and modified to read as
follows:	11.4. Fuel Supply and Arrangement.  Fuel supply and arrangement shall
be installed as required by the Los Angeles Fire Code.94.2030.17. NFPA 20-2007
Sections 11.4.1 through 11.4.8 are not adopted.
