                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE PROTECTION TANKS. (§ 94.2050.0)

  FIRE PROTECTION TANKS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,326, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	Tanks for water
storage for fire protection systems and associated piping shall conform to the
requirements of NFPA 22-2003 with the following exceptions, modifications and
additions:	1.	Section 4.1.1 is modified to read:	4.1.1.  Size.  Tanks shall be
designed to supply the required water flow for the required duration.	2.	Section
7.2.6.4 is added to read:	7.2.6.4.  Air Pressure Gage.  The minimum required
air pressure of the tank shall be clearly and permanently posted next to the air
pressure gage.	3.	Section 13.2.3 is modified to read:	13.2.3.  Pipe Material. 
Water fill and tank discharge, piping and valves shall conform to the material
and installation requirements for fire sprinkler piping.	4.	Section 13.2.12.4 is
added to read:	13.2.12.4.  Valve.  A readily accessible indicating-type
control valve shall be installed in the water filling piping so as to isolate
each tank.	5.	Section 13.4.1 is modified to read:	13.4.1 Tank Fill.  Each tank
shall be equipped with an automatic tank fill line that shall be sized to fill
the tank in eight hours but shall not be smaller than two inches in
diameter.	For high-rise buildings see Section 94.2060 of this
division.	6.	Sections 13.4.1.1 through 13.4.1.4 are not adopted.	7.	Section
13.8.3 is added to read:	13.8.3.  Monitor.  High and low level alarms shall be
closed circuit electric alarms that sound an alarm and turn on an indication
light at a permanently staffed location when the water level is not within ten
percent of the design volume.
