                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

UNDERGROUND FIRE PROTECTION PIPING. (§ 94.2040.0)

  UNDERGROUND FIRE PROTECTION PIPING.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,757, Eff. 7/6/11.)	This section regulates underground
fire protection piping between the City main or other sources of supply and fire
hydrants, fire sprinkler risers, and monitor nozzles. Above ground standpipe
piping and water spray systems shall conform to applicable code requirements for
fire sprinkler piping and to the requirements set forth in NFPA 24-2010 with
following exceptions, modifications and additions:94.2040.1. NFPA 24-2010
Chapter 2 is not adopted.94.2040.2. NFPA 24-2010 Section 4.2.1 is added and
modified to read as follows:	4.2.1. Installation work shall be done by fully
experienced and responsible contractors.  Contractors shall be appropriately
licensed in the State of California to install private fire service mains and
their appurtenances.94.2040.3. NFPA 24-2010 Section 4.2.2 is added and modified
to read as follows:	4.2.2. Installation or modification of private fire service
mains shall not begin until plans are approved and appropriate permits secured
from the authority having jurisdiction.94.2040.4. NFPA 24-2010 Section 4.2.2.1
is added and modified to read as follows:	4.2.2.1. As approved by the authority
having jurisdiction, emergency repair of existing system may start immediately,
with plans being submitted to the authority having jurisdiction within 96 hours
from the start of the repair work.94.2040.5. NFPA 24-2010 Section 5.6. is added
and modified to read as follows:	5.6. Pumps.  A single automatically controlled
fire pump installed in accordance with Section 94.2030 of this Chapter shall be
an acceptable water supply source.94.2040.6. NFPA 24-2010 Section 5.7 is added
and modified to read as follows:	5.7. Tanks shall be installed in accordance
with “Section 94.2050 of this division.” 94.2040.7. NFPA 24-2010 Section
5.9.1 is added and modified to read as follows:	5.9.1. General.  Fire
Department connections shall comply with the applicable requirements for fire
sprinkler systems.94.2040.8. NFPA 24-2010 Section 5.9.1.2. is added and modified
to read as follows:	5.9.1.2. Fire Department connections shall be properly
supported and protected from mechanical damage.94.2040.9. NFPA 24-2010 Section
5.9.1.5 is added and modified to read as follows:	5.9.1.5. Control Valve. A
control valve shall be installed between the City check valve and the point of
connection to the fire department connection to the underground
piping.94.2040.10. NFPA 24-2010 Section 5.9.5.1 is added and modified to read as
follows:	5.9.5.1. Fire Department connections shall be on the street side of
buildings and as approved by the authority having jurisdiction.94.2040.11. NFPA
24-2010 Section 6.1.5 is added and modified to read as follows:	6.1.5. A non
indicating valve such as an underground gate valve with approved roadway,
complete with T wrench, and accepted by the authority having jurisdiction shall
be permitted to be used as sectional isolation valves in private service mains
that do not supply fire sprinklers.94.2040.12. NFPA 24-2010 Section 6.2.11 (5)
is not adopted.94.2040.13. NFPA 24-2010 Section 6.3.3.1 is not
adopted.94.2040.14. NFPA 24-2010 Section 6.4.1 is modified by changing the
reference “NFPA 13&#038;″ to “Section 94.2050 of this
Division.”94.2040.15. NFPA 24-2010 Section 6.6.2.is added and modified to read
as follows:	6.6.2. A sectional valve shall be provided at the following
locations:	1.	On each bank where a main crosses a body of water.	2.	Outside the
building foundation(s) where a main or a section of a main runs under a
building.94.2040.16. NFPA 24-2010 Section 6.6.2.1 through 6.6.2.4 are added and
modified to read as follows:	6.6.2.1. Sectional control valves are not required
when the fire service main system serves less than six fire
appurtenances.	6.6.2.2. Sectional control valves shall be indicating valves in
accordance with Section 94.2010 of this chapter.	6.6.2.3. Sectional control
valves on looped systems shall be located so that no more than five fire
appurtenances are affected by shut-down of any single portion of the fire
service main.  Each fire hydrant, fire sprinkler system riser, and standpipe
riser shall be considered a separate fire appurtenance.  In-rack sprinkler
systems shall not be considered as a separate appurtenance.	6.6.2.4. The number
of fire appurtenances between sectional control valves is allowed to be modified
by the authority having jurisdiction.94.2040.17. NFPA 24-2010 Section 6.6.2.5 is
added and modified to read as follows:	6.6.2.5. Looped underground systems shall
be provided with sectional valves regardless of the number of
appurtenances.94.2040.18. NFPA 24-2010 Section 7.1.1.1 is added and modified to
read as follows:	7.1.1.1. Hydrant Valves.  Each fire hydrant shall be isolated
by a listed key-type gate valve located at least four feet and not more than ten
feet from the fire hydrant.  The valve shall not be located in a parking space.
No fire sprinkler riser valve shall control any fire hydrant.94.2040.19. NFPA
24-2010 Section 7.1.5 is added and modified to read as follows:	7.1.5. Water
Supplies.  Water supplies for fire hydrant, monitoring nozzle and water spray
systems shall be approved by the Fire Department.94.2040.20. NFPA 24-2010
Section 10.6.5 is added and modified to read as follows:	10.6.5. Pipe joints
shall not be located under foundation footings.  The pipe under the building or
building foundation shall not contain mechanical joints.	EXCEPTIONS:	I.	Where
allowed in accordance with 10.6.2.	II.	Alternate designs may be utilized where
designed by a registered professional engineer and approved by the enforcing
agency.94.2040.21. NFPA 24-2010 Section 10.9.1 is added and modified to read as
follows:	10.9.1. Backfill shall be well tamped in layers or puddled under and
around pipes to prevent settlement or lateral movement.  Backfill shall consist
of clean fill sand or pea gravel to a minimum of 6&#038;″  below and to a
minimum of 12&#038;″ above the pipe and shall contain no ashes cinders,
refuse, organic matter, or other corrosive materials.  Other backfill materials
and methods are permitted where designed by a registered professional engineer
and approved by the enforcing agency.94.2040.22. NFPA 24-2010  Section
10.10.2.2.5 is added and modified to read as follows:	10.10.2.2.5. When
permitted by the authority having jurisdiction and required for safety measures
presented by the hazards of open trenches, the pipe and joints shall be
permitted to be backfilled, provided the owner takes the responsibility for
locating and correcting leakage.94.2040.23. NFPA 24-2010 Section 12.1 is added
and modified to read as follows:	12.1. General above ground pipe and fittings
shall comply with the applicable Section 94.2010 of this chapter that address
pipe, fittings, joining methods, hangers and installation.94.2040.24. NFPA
24-2010 Section 12.2.5 is added and modified to read as follows:	12.2.5. To
minimize or prevent breakage where subject to earthquakes, above ground pipe
shall be protected in accordance with the seismic requirements of Section
94.2010 of this Division.94.2040.25. NFPA 24-2010 Section 12.2.6 is added and
modified to read as follows:	12.2.6. Mains that pass through walls, floors, and
ceilings shall be provided with clearances in accordance with Section 94.2010 of
this Division.
