                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NFPA-13-D. (§ 94.2014.0)

  NFPA-13-D.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,757, Eff. 7/6/11.)	NFPA 13D-2010 is adopted by
reference with the following exceptions, modifications and additions:94.2014.1.
NFPA 13D-2010 Section 3.2 is adopted by reference except that the following
sections are not adopted:	3.2.2. Authority Having Jurisdiction.	3.2.7.
Standard.94.2014.2. NFPA 13D-2010 Section 3.3.9 is adopted by reference, except
that the following section is not adopted.	3.3.9.7. Sprinkler System.94.2014.3.
Section 5.1.2 is not adopted.94.2014.4. Section 5.1.3 is not adopted.94.2014.5.
Section 5.1.4 is added and modified to read as follows:	5.1.4. Fire Department
Connections. Fire Department connections for one and two family dwellings shall
meet the following requirements:	1.	A Fire Department connection shall be
provided for any system protecting over 10,000 square feet of habitable
space;	2.	A single Fire Department connection pipe may be as small as the
sprinkler riser, provided the riser is three inches or smaller; and	3.	The hose
inlet fitting may be 1-1/2 inches with 1.5-9 N.H. thread of 2.5-7.5 N.H.
standard threads.94.2014.6. Section 6.2 is added and modified to read as
follows:	6.2. Water Supply Sources.  When the requirements of 6.2.2 are met,
the following water supply sources shall be considered to be acceptable by this
standard:	1.	A connection to a reliable waterworks system with or without an
automatically operated pump;	2.	An elevated tank;	3.	A pressure tank designed to
American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) standards for a pressure vessel
with a reliable pressure source;	4.	A stored water source with an automatically
operated pump; and	5.	A well with a pump of sufficient capacity and pressure to
meet the sprinkler demand.  The stored water requirement of 6.1.2 or 6.1.3
shall be permitted to be a combination of the water in the well (including the
refill rate) plus the water in the holding tank if such tank can supply the
sprinkler system.94.2014.7. NFPA 13D-2010 Section 6.2.2 is added and modified to
read as follows:	6.2.2. Where a well, pump, tank or combination thereof  is the
source of supply for a fire sprinkler system, the water supply shall serve both
domestic and fire sprinkler systems, and the following shall be met:	1.	A test
connection shall be provided downstream of the pump that creates a flow of water
equal to the smallest sprinkler on the system. The connection shall return water
to the tank;	2.	Any disconnecting means for the pump shall be approved;	3.	A
method for refilling the tank shall be piped to the tank;	4.	A method of seeing
the water level in the tank shall be provided without having to open the tank;
and	5.	The pump shall not be permitted to sit directly on the floor.94.2014.8.
NFPA 13D-2010 Section 6.2.2.1 is added and modified to read as follows:	6.2.2.1.
Where a fire sprinkler system is supplied by a stored water source with an
automatically operated means of pressurizing the system other than an electric
pump, the water supply may serve the sprinkler system only.94.2014.9. NFPA
13D-2010 Section 6.2.4 is added and modified to read as follows:	6.2.4. Where a
water supply serves both domestic and fire sprinkler systems, 5 gpm (19 L/min)
shall be added to the sprinkler system demand at the point where the systems are
connected, to determine the size of common piping and the size of the total
water supply requirements where no provision is made to prevent flow into the
domestic water system upon operation of a sprinkler.94.2014.10. NFPA 13D-2010
Section 7.5.1 is added and modified to read as follows:	7.5.1. Listed
residential sprinklers shall be used unless another type is permitted by
Sections 7.5.3 or 7.5.4.	EXCEPTION:  Listed quick response commercial
sprinklers  may be installed when construction features exist that are outside
the scope of residential sprinkler listings and the hydraulic design is in
accordance with Section 8.1.2 as set forth in Subsection 11 of Section 94.2014
of this Division.94.2014.11. NFPA 13D-2010 Section 8.1.2 is added and modified
to read as follows:	8.1.2. Number of Design Sprinklers. The number of design
sprinklers shall include all sprinklers within a compartment, up to a maximum of
two sprinklers, under a flat, smooth, horizontal ceiling. For compartments
containing two or more sprinklers, calculations shall be provided to verify the
single operating criteria and the two operating sprinkler
criteria.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Single family dwellings having more than 10,000 square
feet of habitable space shall follow the design requirements of Section 94.2013
of this Division.	2.	Attached private garages greater than 1500 square feet
shall follow the design requirements of Section 94.2010 of this
Division.	3.	When listed quick response sprinklers are utilized within a
dwelling, the hydraulic design shall follow the requirements of Section 94.2010
of this Division.94.2014.12. NFPA 13D-2010 Section 8.1.3.1.2 is not
adopted.94.2014.13. NFPA 13D-2010 Section 8.6.4 of NFPA 13D is not adopted.
