                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CLASS H STANDPIPES. (§ 94.2021.0)

  CLASS H STANDPIPES.94.2021.1.  Class H standpipes are fire lines equipped
with 1½-inch hose outlets and intended for use by trained personnel in fighting
fires on helicopter landing pads.94.2021.2.  At least one Class H standpipe
outlet shall be located outdoors to serve each helicopter landing facility. 
Every point shall be covered with a 20-foot stream of water from a nozzle
connected to not more than 100 feet of hose.94.2021.3.  Class H standpipe
outlets shall be located below the glide path.  The glide path shall be based
on 1-foot vertical to 8-foot horizontal travel.94.2021.4.  Class H standpipe
hose outlets shall be readily accessible to the Fire Department.94.2021.5. 
Class H standpipe components, material, identification, protection and
installation shall comply with the applicable requirements for standpipe
systems.94.2021.6.  Class H standpipes shall be flushed for at least one
minute.94.2021.7.  Water Supply.94.2021.7.1.  Class H standpipes shall be
designed to automatically provide a flow of at least 100 g.p.m. at 65 psi
residual pressure.94.2021.7.2.  The emergency supply for Class H standpipes in
buildings over 75 feet in height shall have at least 2500 gallons usable
capacity in case of failure of the normal power and water services.  A Fire
Department inlet connection shall be acceptable as this source, provided it
complies with the requirements for the Fire Department connection for automatic
sprinklers.94.2021.7.3.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,326, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)  When the maximum working pressure exceeds 175 psi at a Class H
standpipe outlet, a pressure regulator shall be installed to reduce the static
pressure from the outlet to 175 psi or less.94.2021.8.  A minimum 2-inch bypass
shall be made between the City water main and the downstream side of any pump
when that connection will provide the minimum required flow and pressure for a
Class H standpipe.94.2021.9.  Hoses.94.2021.9.1.  Each Class H standpipe
outlet shall have a hose valve, fire hose and nozzle.94.2021.9.2.  Fire hoses
shall be listed.94.2021.9.3.  Fire hoses shall be 1½ inches in diameter and
not over 100 feet long.94.2021.9.4.  Fire hoses shall be lined.94.2021.9.5. 
Hose nozzles shall be listed 1½ inch combination fog and straight stream type
and shall be of a design acceptable to the Fire Department.94.2021.9.6.  Fire
hoses exposed to the weather shall be protected by hose cabinets.94.2021.10. 
Hose Racks, Reels and Cabinets.94.2021.10.1.  Hose racks and reels shall be
listed.94.2021.10.2.  Any hose cabinet that can be locked shall have an opening
with a pane of single-strength glass at least seven inches high and as wide as
the construction of the door will permit.94.2021.10.3.  Hose cabinets that can
be locked shall be labeled “CAUTION – FOR FIRE FIGHTING BY TRAINED PERSONNEL
ONLY” in contrasting letters at least three inches high.94.2021.11.  Outlets
shall not be under control of fire sprinkler floor control valves.
