                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS. (§ 95.112)

  PERMITS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,595, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)95.112.1. 
GENERAL.  No person shall install or alter, repair, relocate, replace or add to
any installed heating, ventilating, air-conditioning, or refrigeration equipment
or other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances unless a permit for the work
has been obtained from the Department, except as provided in this Code.  (First
Paragraph Amended by Ord. No. 179,327, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)	EXCEPTION:	1.	A separate permit shall not be required for installation
of any heating, ventilating, air-conditioning, or refrigeration equipment or
other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances for which a combined
building/mechanical permit has been obtained pursuant to Section 91.107.2 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.	2.	No person shall be subject to a fine or payment
of an investigation fee for starting and doing any emergency repair work without
a permit being first obtained, if a permit for the work is obtained on or before
12:00 noon on the third day the office of the Department is open for public
business after the work was started.  (See Section 98.0402 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.)  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,327, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)	3.	No permit shall be required for:	A.	Any portable ventilating
equipment.	B.	Any portable comfort-cooling unit.	C.	Any steam, hot or chilled
water piping within any comfort- heating or cooling system regulated by this
Code.	D.	Any portable evaporative cooler.	E.	Any unit refrigeration system. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,327, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	F.	Any cooking
range, broiler unit or domestic-type clothes dryer.	G.	Any replacement or
repairing of a compressor, provided the compressor replaced or repaired is of
the same horsepower rating and is installed in the same location.	H.	Any
replacement or repair of controls, motors and components which are not part of,
or used for, any emergency smoke-control system required by the Building Code or
the Fire Code.	I.	Any replacement or repair of any component part of listed
factory-assembled comfort-heating or comfort-cooling equipment which does not
alter its original approval and complies with all other applicable requirements
of this Code.	J.	Any repair of equipment not specified here, if the total value
of the repair is less than $500.00 for labor and material.  For the purpose of
this requirement, no permit shall be required where the work is performed on
more than one piece of equipment or duct system that is located in the same
building, provided the total value of material and labor for any separate and
individual repair does not exceed $500.00.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,327, Eff.
12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	K.	The replacement of defective forced-air units with
one of equivalent size, Btu/hr (W) rating and vent capacity when the vent does
not require replacement or relocation in a detached single-family dwelling and
the replacement is performed by a contractor with a valid Certificate of
Registration pursuant to Section 91.1716 of the Building Code.  A Certificate
of Compliance pursuant to Section 91.108.12 of the Building Code must be filed
with the City in lieu of a permit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,685, Eff.
5/2/11.)	L.	The replacement of defective air-conditioning units when they are
replaced with one of equivalent size and Btu/hr (W) rating by a contractor with
a valid Certificate of Registration pursuant to Section 91.1705 of the Building
Code.  A Certificate of Compliance pursuant to Section 91.108.12 of the
Building Code must be filed with the City in lieu of a permit.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,685, Eff. 5/2/11.)	The foregoing exemptions for permit requirements
shall not apply where the equipment is regulated by the California Energy
Commission, or the equipment is used to provide the required heating capacity
for any residential occupancy, or the equipment is used as part of an emergency
smoke-control system.	The foregoing exemptions from permit requirements shall
not be deemed to allow any equipment regulated by this Code to be installed in a
manner contrary to other provisions of this Code.95.112.2.  PERMIT REQUIRED. 
A permit shall be obtained for all heating, ventilating, air-conditioning or
refrigeration equipment or other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances moved
with, or installed in, a relocated building in the City.95.112.3.  SEPARATE
PERMIT.  A separate permit shall be obtained for the equipment installed in
each separate building or structure and for the work required by each building
permit.95.112.4.  INCIDENTAL GAS.  Any qualified installer as specified in
Section 95.113.4 of this Code may install incidental gas piping to connect any
heating appliance or absorption unit to the existing gas piping system,
provided:	1.	The incidental piping installation complies with the requirements
as set forth in the Los Angeles Plumbing Code; and	2.	There is an existing gas
supply meter on the premises serving the gas piping system.
