                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DECLARING CERTAIN AREA SUBJECT TO INUNDATION AND PROHIBITING CONSTRUCTION OF
CERTAIN BUILDINGS THEREIN. (§ 96.05)

  DECLARING CERTAIN AREA SUBJECT TO INUNDATION AND PROHIBITING CONSTRUCTION OF
CERTAIN BUILDINGS THEREIN.	(a)	Every part and portion of that territory
hereinafter described, which constitutes a part of the area known as
Laguna-Dominguez area, and located within the corporate limits of the City of
Los Angeles, which is less than fifteen and one-half feet elevation above sea
level, United States Geological Survey, is hereby declared to be subject to
inundation, and is, therefore, declared to be unfit for human habitation. Said
territory is more particularly described as follows:	Beginning at the
intersection of the easterly prolongation of the center line of that portion of
One Hundred Seventieth Street (in the City of Gardena) extending westerly from
Vermont Avenue with the westerly boundary of the City of Los Angeles as said
boundary existed  January 1, 1942; thence southerly along said westerly
boundary of the City of Los Angeles in its various courses to the northeasterly
prolongation of the center line of that portion of One Hundred Eighty-second
Street tending southwesterly from Vermont Avenue; thence northeasterly along
said last-mentioned northeasterly prolongation to the center line of Vermont
Avenue; thence southerly along said last-mentioned center line in its various
courses to the westerly prolongation of the southerly line of Lot 109, McDonald
Tract, as per map recorded in Book 15, pages 21 and 22, Miscellaneous Records of
Los Angeles County; thence easterly along said last-mentioned prolongation and
said last-mentioned southerly line to a point in the northerly prolongation of
the westerly line of Lot 75 of Tract No. 4671, as per map recorded in Book 56,
pages 30 and 31 of Maps, Records of said County; thence southerly along said
last-mentioned northerly prolongation to the center line of One Hundred
Ninetieth Street; thence northeasterly long said last-mentioned center line to
the northerly prolongation of the center line of that portion of Hamilton Street
extending southerly from One Hundred Ninetieth Street; thence southerly along
said last-mentioned northerly prolongation to the southeasterly boundary line of
the City of Los Angeles as said boundary existed January 1, 1942; thence
northeasterly along said last-mentioned boundary of the City of Los Angeles and
continuing along said boundary to the easterly prolongation of the center line
of that portion of One Hundred Eighty-ninth Street extending westerly from
Figueroa Street; thence westerly along said last-mentioned easterly prolongation
and along said center line of One Hundred Eighty-ninth Street to the southerly
prolongation of the westerly line of Lot 8, M. E. Woods Gardena Tract, as per
map recorded in Book 10, page 172 of Maps, Records of said County; thence
northerly along said last-mentioned southerly prolongation and said westerly
line of Lot 8 to the northwesterly corner thereof; thence southwesterly along
the southeasterly line of Lot 21 of Stimson Bros.’ Resubdivision of Farm Lots
18 and 19 South Gardena Tract, as per map recorded in Book 52, page 98,
Miscellaneous Records of said County, to the most southerly corner of said Lot
21; thence northerly along the westerly line of said Lot 21 and the northerly
prolongation thereof to the center line of One Hundred Eighty-fourth Street;
thence southwesterly along said last-mentioned center line to the southerly
prolongation of the westerly line of Lot 27, said Stimson Bros. Resubdivision of
Farm Lots 18 and 19, South Gardena tract; thence northerly along said
last-mentioned southerly prolongation and said westerly line and the northerly
prolongation thereof to the easterly prolongation of the hereinbefore mentioned
center line of One Hundred Seventieth Street; thence westerly along said
last-mentioned easterly prolongation to the point of beginning.	(b)	No building
or portion thereof which is designed for residential purposes or as a place of
public assembly as hereinafter described, or for both, may be constructed, and
no existing building may be altered so as to be used either in whole or in part
for such use, upon any part or portion of the premises described in Subdivision
(a) hereof, which is less than fifteen and one-half feet elevation above sea
level, United States Geological Survey.	(c)	A “place of public assembly”, as
used in Subdivision (b) hereof means and includes every place designed for or
used for the congregation or gathering of twenty (20) or more persons, whether
such gathering be of a public, restricted, or private nature. Assembly halls,
churches, schools, auditoriums, recreation halls, pavilions, places of
amusement, dance halls, opera house, motion picture theatres, and the like, are
included within this term.	(d)	No permit shall be issued by any officer or
employee of the City for the doing of any act for which such permit is required
by any provision of this chapter when such act, if performed, would constitute a
violation of this section.
