                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONTENTS OF REPORTS. (§ 96.304)

  CONTENTS OF REPORTS.	(a)	Report of Superintendent of Building.  The report
of the Superintendent of Building shall contain the following information so far
as it is available in the records of the Department of Building and
Safety:	(1)	The zoning classification of the property in question.	(2)	The
authorized occupancy and use of the subject property as shown by building
permits or certificates of occupancy of record.	(3)	Existing orders or the
estimated amount of pending assessments of record which are the result of the
Superintendent of Building having awarded a contract for the demolition of
buildings or structures upon the subject residential property which demolitions
were ordered to be performed by the Superintendent of Building under the
provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	(4)	The declaration made pursuant
to the provisions of Section 96.303 of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 153,637,
Eff. 5/18/80.)	(5)	A copy of any Certificate of Occupancy issued with respect to
the subject property pursuant to Section 91.0307 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,310, Eff. 12/31/89.)	(6)	A listing of all
document and reference numbers written or printed directly on the individual lot
for which the report is requested as shown on the Zoning Map maintained by the
Department of Building and Safety.  (Added by Ord. No. 157,177, Eff.
11/28/82.)	(7)	Any current resolution by the City Council placing the property
into the Rent Escrow Account Program of the City of Los Angeles.  Notice of
this resolution shall also be filed in the Office of the County Recorder. 
(Added by Ord. No. 170,445, Eff. 5/6/95, Oper. 7/5/95.)	(b)	City Engineer
Reports.  (Amended by Ord. No. 151,841, Eff. 2/17/79.)  The City Engineer
report shall contain the following information:	(1)	An estimate of pending
assessment liens on residential properties for public maintenance of private
streets. Such estimate shall be provided upon determination of the cost of
correcting any hazardous condition upon a private street whenever such
corrective work is ordered by the Board of Public Works pursuant to the
provisions of Section 65.13 of this Code.	(2)	An estimate of pending special
assessment liens for public improvements proposed under assessment procedures
authorized by State law for which an ordinance of intention has been adopted by
the City Council of this City.	(3)	Pending special assessment liens for weed
clearance originating under the provisions of Title 4, Division 3, Part 2,
Chapter 13 of the Government Code of the State of California.	(4)	Notices of
record to repair sidewalks issued by the Department of Public Works under the
authority of Chapter 22 of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Streets and Highways Code
of the State of California.	(5)	Existing orders or notices of record received by
the Department of Public Works from the Fire Department requesting the
initiation of proceeding for brush abatement under the provisions of Title 4,
Division 3, Part 2, Chapter 13, of the Government Code of the State of
California.	(6)	All recorded assessment liens as known to the City Engineer
except for street lighting maintenance assessment liens.	(7)	Whether or not a
house sewer connection permit has been issued pursuant to Section 64.12 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 154,431, Eff.
11/6/80.)	(8)	Notices of making of application for essential public utilities
assessments pursuant to Chapter 8 of Division 6 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code, which have not yet been acted upon by the City Council, or,
if acted upon, have resulted in an assessment lien which is not yet
delinquent.  (Added by Ord. No. 162,383, Eff. 6/13/87.)
