                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PRESSURE VESSELS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT TO BE INSPECTED ANNUALLY. (§ 97.0310)

  PRESSURE VESSELS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT TO BE INSPECTED ANNUALLY.	The
Superintendent shall cause the following to be carefully inspected as provided
in this article.	(a)	Equipment To Be Inspected.  Any equipment listed in
Sections 97.0301, 97.0303 or 97.0314 shall be inspected once each year and a new
Certificate of Inspection (Operating Permit) issued.  This includes every steam
boiler, high pressure boiler, low pressure boiler, hot water boiler, electric
boiler, hot water storage tank or hydro-pneumatic tank of over 120 gallons,
steam mangle, steam kettle, steam cooker, vulcanizer, sprinkler tank, clothes
press (regardless of where steam is obtained), rendering tank, retort or steam
kettle, dryer, steam vacuum tank, automotive hoist, heat exchanger, and steam
receiver.  Air tanks shall be inspected once every 3 years.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 179,329, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)		EXCEPTIONS:	(1)	Unfired pressure
vessels (other than those that receive steam) including air tanks having a
volume of 1-1/2 cubic feet or less which have safety valves set to open at not
more than 150 psi. 	(2)	Portable boilers and portable unfired pressure vessels
that require an Operating Permit from the State of California.	(3)	Oxygen,
hydrogen and non flammable bulk industrial gas tanks.  (Amended by Ord. No.
179,329, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	(4)	Pressure vessels used in
refrigerating systems.	(5)	Cylinders used in Department of Transportation
Service.	 (b)	Inspection.  Unless required elsewhere, an external inspection of
equipment shall be required.  Where construction and operating conditions
permit, the equipment may be subject to inspection internally.  The
Superintendent may also require a hydrostatic or other test.  The Department
may accept ultrasonic thickness determination in lieu of, or in conjunction
with, internal inspection of air tanks of 36 inch diameter or less.  The
Department may also require an internal inspection or other non-destructive
examination for any equipment listed in this article.
