                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONTRACTOR PERMIT APPLICANTS – BUSINESS AND PAYROLL EXPENSE TAX REGISTRATION
INFORMATION AND CERTIFICATES. (§ 98.0107)

  CONTRACTOR PERMIT APPLICANTS – BUSINESS AND PAYROLL EXPENSE TAX
REGISTRATION INFORMATION AND CERTIFICATES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168,612, Eff. 4/2/93.)	(a)	In connection with any permit or
application for inspection, as provided for in Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 of
this chapter by or on behalf of any contractor, as that term is defined in
Subsection (b) hereof, the Department of Building and Safety shall be furnished
the business or payroll expense tax registration certificate number or evidence
of exemption from business and payroll expense taxes for such contractor. No
permit shall be issued by the Department of Building and Safety to any
contractor, as defined herein, unless such contractor has a business or payroll
expense tax registration certificate or is determined by the Office of Finance
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,300, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) to be exempt from
business and payroll expense taxes.	(b)	The term “contractor” means any
person who undertakes to or offers to undertake to or purports to have the
capacity to undertake to or submits a bid to, or does himself or by or through
others, construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or
demolish any building, highway, road, parking facility, railroad, excavation or
other structure, project, development or improvement, or to do any part thereof,
including the erection of scaffolding or other structures or works in connection
therewith, or the cleaning of grounds or structures in connection therewith, and
whether or not the performance of work herein described involves the addition to
or fabrication into any structure, project, development or improvement herein
described of any material or article of merchandise. The term “contractor”
includes subcontractor and specialty contractor.
