                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REVOCATION, SUSPENSION, LIMITATION OF LICENSES. (§ 98.0202)

  REVOCATION, SUSPENSION, LIMITATION OF LICENSES.	(a)	Causes of Revocation,
Suspension or Limitation.  The Department may revoke, limit, suspend or refuse
to issue or renew any license, for any of the following:  (Amended by Ord. No.
139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	1.	Failure to timely pay the fees as set forth in the
particular article of this Code regulating the work, act, trade, or profession
for which such license was issued.	2.	Falsification of any record, fact or
information required by this Code or any rule or regulation of the Department in
granting any license to any person, whether such person is the licensee or
not.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	3.	Withholding of any
record, fact or information required by this Code or by rule or regulation of
the Department in granting any license to any person, whether such person is the
licensee or not.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,149, Eff. 11/30/69.)	4.	Incompetence
in performance of any of the duties, tasks, skills or functions for which the
license has been issued.	5.	Inability to properly perform any of the duties,
tasks, skills, or functions for which the license has been issued.	6.	If any
reason exists which would have been cause for denial of such license.	7.	Failure
to maintain any of the equipment, conditions, personnel, or provisions precedent
to the issuance of any license.	8.	Failure to carry out any of the conditions or
provisions precedent to the issuance or maintenance of any license.	9.	Violation
of any provision of this Code in doing any act or work authorized to be done by
such license.	10.	Willful, gross, or negligent failure to observe violations of
this Code when such observation is the duty of the licensee.	11.	Willful, gross,
or negligent failure to report violations of this Code, when such report is the
duty of the licensee.	12.	Willful complicity in any act designed to circumvent
or violate any provisions of this Code or of any rule or regulation of the
Department. (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	13.	Willful omission
or misrepresentation of any material fact in an application for any permit
required for any work or act regulated by this Code.	14.	Conspiring to secure
for another, by misrepresentation, fraud, or deceit, any license required by
this Code.	15.	Permitting any person to use such license to perform any act of
work of the kind authorized by such license for the purpose of avoiding
compliance with any provision of this Code or of any Department rule or
regulation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	16.	Willful or gross
disregard of this Code or Department rules or regulations governing the act,
trade, occupation, profession, process, installation of work for which the
license is granted.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	17.	Gross
neglect or duty or insobriety.	18.	Absence while work is in progress, which work
requires the attendance, act, or supervision of the
licensee.	19.	Misrepresentation in any contract or agreement to perform any act
or work authorized to be done by such license.	20.	Publishing, uttering or
disseminating any false, deceptive or misleading statements or advertisements in
connection with any work, service or act authorized to be done under any license
granted by the Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff.
11/30/69.)	21.	Willfully failing to comply with any reasonable terms of any
contract made as a part of the exercise of the permitted trade, work, or
profession.	22.	For any reason set forth elsewhere in this Code governing the
work, act, trade, or profession for which the license is issued.	23.	Failure to
timely make any required report to the Superintendent. (Amended by Ord. No.
139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)
