                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VACANT STRUCTURE PENALTY. (§ 98.0716)

  VACANT STRUCTURE PENALTY.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,185, Eff. 7/8/10.)	(a)	Any Responsible Person in
charge of a structure which meets the definition of a Vacant Structure as
provided in this division for 30 consecutive calendar days may be liable for an
administrative penalty in the amount of $1000 per structure per day, not to
exceed $100,000 per property per calendar year unless:	(1)	a Statement of Intent
has been filed and approved by the Superintendent; and	(2)	the building has been
posted as required by Section 98.0714 of this Code; and	(3)	one of the following
applies:	(A)	The structure is the subject of an active building permit for
repair, rehabilitation or demolition and the owner is proceeding diligently in
good faith to complete the repair, rehabilitation or demolition; or,	(B)	The
structure is maintained in compliance with this division and is actively being
offered for sale, lease or rent; or,	(C)	The Responsible Person can demonstrate
that he or she made a diligent and good faith effort to implement the actions
set forth in the approved Statement of Intent within the time line contained
within the Statement of Intent.	(b)	If the structure continues to meet the
definition of Vacant Structure as provided in this division beyond the initial
30 calendar days, and if the Responsible Person does not meet any of the
exceptions set forth in this section, the Superintendent may impose a penalty of
$1000 per structure for each calendar day the structure continues to constitute
a Vacant Structure, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 164.08 of
this Code, pursuant to the notice requirements in this division.  At no time
may the amount of the administrative penalty exceed $100,000 per property in a
calendar year.
