                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL PROVISIONS. (§ 98.0302)

  GENERAL PROVISIONS.	(a)	Hearing Examiners.  The Board or the Superintendent
may appoint one or more hearing examiners or the Board may designate one or more
of its members to serve as hearing examiners to conduct hearings.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(b)	Conduct of Hearing.  The examiner hearing
the case shall exercise all powers relating to the conduct of
hearings.	(c)	Reporting.  The proceedings at the hearing shall be reported by a
phonographic reporter if requested by any party thereto. A transcript of the
proceedings shall be made available to all parties upon request and upon payment
of the prescribed fee therefor.	(d)	Continuances.  The Board or the
Superintendent may grant continuances; however, when a hearing examiner has been
assigned to such hearing, no continuances may be granted except by him for good
cause shown so long as the matter remains before him.  (Amended by Ord. No.
139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(e)	Oaths – Certification.  In any proceedings under
this article, the Superintendent, the Board, any board member, any examining
board, the Secretary of the Board or the hearing examiner has the power to
administer oaths and affirmations and to certify to official acts.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(f)	Reasonable Dispatch.  The Superintendent,
the Board, or the hearing examiner shall proceed with reasonable dispatch to
conclude any matter being heard. Due regard shall be shown for the convenience
and necessity of any parties or their representatives.  (Amended by Ord. No.
139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(g)	Time and Place of Hearing.  The Superintendent or
the Board shall determine the time and place of hearing.  (Amended by Ord. No.
139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(h)	Attendance of City Attorney.  The City Attorney,
upon the request of the Superintendent or the Board, may assign one of his
deputies or assistants to attend any hearing, and to give advice on any and all
legal matters pertaining to the proceeding.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff.
11/30/69.)	(i)	Maintenance of Order.  The Superintendent, the Board or examiner
shall require the maintenance of order in the hearing room, may order the
exclusion of witnesses, may expel anyone who disturbs the hearing, and may
secure the aid of the Police Department for such purposes. (Amended by Ord. No.
139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)
