                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROCEDURES FOR APPEALS TO THE DEPARTMENT AND TO THE BOARD. (§ 98.0403.2)

  PROCEDURES FOR APPEALS TO THE DEPARTMENT AND TO THE BOARD.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	(a)	 Appeals to the Department
under Power Granted in Section 98.0403.1.	1.	Such appeals shall be made in
writing, upon appropriate forms provided therefor by the Department.	2.	An
appeal processing fee of $130.00 for the first item and $39.00 for each
additional item shall be paid by the appellant prior to the Department
processing the appeal and making a determination.  	In addition to the appeal
processing fee required by this subdivision, an inspection fee of $84.00 per
inspection shall be paid by the appellant when, in the opinion of the
Department, the appeal requires field inspections to verify site conditions. 
Miscellaneous Fees as provided for in Section 98.0415(f) may be collected to
prepare a written report.	An additional inspection fee as described in Section
98.0412(a) may be charged by the Department for each inspection necessary to
verify compliance with the conditions established by the determination of the
Department.EXCEPTIONS:	A.	No appeal fee shall be required on any appeal from an
order arising from an area-wide survey, conducted by the Department, of
buildings used for one family housing, if the work required to bring the unit
into compliance with the Los Angeles Municipal Code is the same as specified in
the order.	B.	No appeal fee shall be required for any appeal on a child-care
facility if the owner or operator is a nonprofit child-care organization that
has filed a notarized affidavit to that effect with the Department.	3.	If the
Superintendent determines that an item of request involves a material, device or
method of construction appropriate for a General Approval under Section 98.0501
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, such request shall be accompanied by a filing
fee of $165.00 for each request submitted which includes such item.	A
supplemental fee as specified in Section 98.0501(b)4 shall be charged to cover
processing time in excess of one hour.  If the Department determines that the
material submitted with the appeal request substantiates the claim made therein,
and no request to hold a hearing is pending, the Department may grant a
conditional approval of such request.	4.	In any appeal the appellant making the
request shall cause to be made, at the appellant’s own expense, any tests
required by the Department to substantiate the claims therein.	5.	The Department
may hold any hearings it deems appropriate to consider the appeal.	(b)	 Appeals
to the Board under the Power Granted by Section 98.0403.1(b).	1.	Such appeals
shall be made in writing, upon appropriate forms provided therefor by the
Department.	2.	Appeals shall be accompanied by a filing fee based upon the
subject of the request as set forth in Tables 4-A or 4-B of this
division.	EXCEPTIONS:	A.	No filing fee shall be required on any appeal from an
order arising from an area-wide survey, conducted by the Department, of
buildings used for one family housing, if the work required to bring the unit
into compliance with the Los Angeles Municipal Code is the same as specified in
the order.	B.	No filing fee shall be required for any appeal on a child care
facility if the owner or operator is a nonprofit child care organization that
has filed a notarized affidavit to that effect with the Department.	3.	If the
Board determines that evidence is required to be taken or that further
investigation is necessary to decide any such appeal, the Board may refer the
matter to a hearing examiner for hearing and report in accordance with
provisions of Charter Section 217 or to an ordinance-established advisory board,
or may refer the matter to the Department for further investigation and report,
whichever the Board deems most appropriate.	4.	In any appeal, the appellant or
person making such request shall cause to be made, at the appellant’s own
expense, any tests required by the Board to substantiate the claims
therein.	5.	In addition to any other appeal fees required by this subsection,
each appeal shall be accompanied by an inspection fee of $84.00 per inspection
when, in the opinion of the Department, the appeal requires field inspections to
verify site conditions.  The Department may charge an additional inspection fee
as specified in Section 98.0412(a) for each inspection necessary to verify
compliance with the conditions established by the Board in any approval or
conditional approval.	6.	Miscellaneous Fees as provided for in Section
98.0415(f) may be collected to prepare a written report.TABLE NO. 4-A
FILING FEES* FOR APPEALS
  
    
      
        Group Occupancy
      
      
        FIRST ITEM FOR SINGLE BUILDING
TYPE OF BUILDING**
      
      
        Each Additional Item
      
    
    
      
        V
      
      
        IV
      
      
        III
      
      
        I &#038; II
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        R-3 &#038; U
      
      
        $215.00
      
      
        $215.00
      
      
        $215.00
      
      
        $215.00
      
      
        $76.00
      
    
    
      
        All Others
      
      
         354.00
      
      
         354.00
      
      
         354.00
      
      
         632.00
      
      
        215.00
      
    
    
      
        All other filing fees not covered in the above schedule including
appeals pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 12.26, shall be $500.00
for the first item and $150.00 for each additional item.
      
    
  
	* 	See Section 91.105.4 for fees for referral to the Sign Advisory
Committee.	** 	Accessory building, structures or appendages will be considered
the same as main building and occupancy.TABLE NO 4-B
FILING FEES* FOR APPEALS GRADING AND SOIL REQUIREMENTS
  
    
      
        Number of Lots
      
      
        Construction Requirements
      
      
        Unstable Soil of Geology
      
      
        Each Additional Item
      
    
    
      
        1-5 Lots
      
      
        $280
      
      
        $480
      
      
        $115
      
    
    
      
        6 or more lots
      
      
        580
      
      
        880
      
      
        280
      
    
  
	* See Section 91.105.3 for fees for referrals to the Engineering Geology
Advisory Committee.
