                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL. (§ 99.02.201)

  GENERAL.99.02.201.1.  Scope.  This section is adopted by
reference.99.02.201.2.  Interchangeability.  This section is adopted by
reference.99.02.201.3.  Terms Defined in Other Documents.  Where terms are not
defined in this code and are defined in the Los Angeles Building Standards Code
or other referenced document, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as in those publications.99.02.201.4.  Terms Not Defined.  Where terms
are not defined as prescribed in this section, such terms shall have ordinarily
accepted meanings such as context applies.  The definitions in Webster’s
Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged shall be
considered as providing ordinarily accepted meanings.	Section 202 of CALGreen
Code is adopted by reference, except that the following CALGreen Code
definitions are not adopted:	CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE	CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL
CODE	CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE	CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE	CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL
CODE	LOW-RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDING	The following terms are added as
follows:	ALTERATION.  An alteration shall include any interior and exterior
repair, change of use or occupancy, renovation or improvements made to an
existing site or structure.	CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE.  The current version of the
California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 6.	DEPARTMENT.  The Department
of Building and Safety.	HOME ENERGY RATING SYSTEM (HERS).  The program adopted
in 1999 to establish a procedure and implement an approach to achieve energy
efficiency for residential dwelling units pursuant to the California Code of
Regulations, Title 20, Chapter 4, Article 6, Sections 1670 – 1675.	HIGH-RISE
RESIDENTIAL.  A building that is of Occupancy Group R and more than six stories
in height.	LOS ANGELES BUILDING CODE.  The current version of the Los Angeles
City Building Code, Article 1 of Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	LOS ANGELES BUILDING STANDARDS CODE.  Articles 1 thru 9 of Chapter IX of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	LOS ANGELES ELECTRICAL CODE.  The current
version of the Los Angeles City Electrical Code, Article 3 of Chapter IX of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.	LOS ANGELES MECHANICAL CODE.  The current version
of the Los Angeles City Mechanical Code, Article 5 of Chapter IX of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.	LOS ANGELES PLUMBING CODE.  The current version of the
Los Angeles City Plumbing Code, Article 4, Chapter IX of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.	LOS ANGELES RESIDENTIAL CODE.  The current version of the Los
Angeles City Residential Code, Article 1.5, Chapter IX of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.	LOW-RISE RESIDENTIAL BUILDING.  A building that is of Occupancy
Group R and is six stories or less, or that is a one- or two- family dwelling or
townhouse.	SUSTAINABILITY.  Consideration of present development and
construction impacts on the community, the economy, and the environment without
compromising the needs of the future.
