                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RENEWABLE ENERGY. (§ 99.09.211)

  RENEWABLE ENERGY.99.09.211.1.  (Reserved)99.09.211.2. 
(Reserved)99.09.211.4.  Future Access for Electrical Solar System.  For an
addition resulting in more than 2,000 sq. ft. of new roof area, an electrical
conduit shall be provided from the electrical service equipment to an accessible
location in the attic or other location suitable for future connection to a
solar system.  The conduit shall be adequately sized by the designer but shall
not be less than one inch.  The conduit shall be labeled as per the Los Angeles
Fire Department requirements.  The electrical panel shall be sized to
accommodate the installation of a future electrical solar system.	EXCEPTIONS: 
Buildings designed and constructed with a solar photovoltaic system or an
alternate system with means of generating electricity at time of final
inspection.99.09.211.4.1.  Space for Future Electrical Solar System
Installation.  For additions resulting in more than 2,000 sq. ft. of new roof
area, a minimum of 250 square feet of contiguous unobstructed roof area shall be
provided for the installation of future photovoltaic or other electrical solar
panels.  The location shall be suitable for installing future solar panels as
determined by the designer.	Exceptions:	1.	Buildings designed and constructed
with a solar photovoltaic system or an alternate system with means of generating
electricity at time of final inspection are exempt from this
requirement.	2.	Where it is not feasible to provide one contiguous area due to
the roof configuration, two unobstructed roof areas with a minimum combined area
of 250 square feet maybe provided.	3.	Buildings designed with a green roof
making it unfeasible to provide this area.
WATER EFFICIENCY AND CONSERVATION
