                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SITE DEVELOPMENT. (§ 99.05.106)

  SITE DEVELOPMENT.99.05.106.1.  Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan.  For
newly constructed projects which disturb less than one acre of soil, develop a
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) that has been designed, specific
to its site, conforming to the State Storm water NPDES Construction Permit or
local ordinance, whichever is stricter, as is required for projects one acre or
more.  The plan should cover prevention of soil loss by storm water run-off
and/or wind erosion, of sedimentation, and/or of dust/particulate matter air
pollution.	Note:  Assistance with the permit may be obtained from the
California State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB) at:
http://www.swrcb.ca.gov/stormwtr/, from a Regional Water Quality Control Board,
and at local public works departments.99.05.106.4.  Bicycle Parking.  Comply
with Sections 99.05.106.4.1 and 99.05.106.4.2; or meet local ordinance,
whichever is stricter.99.05.106.4.1.  Short-Term Bicycle Parking.  If the
project is anticipated to generate visitor traffic, provide permanently anchored
bicycle racks within 200 feet of the visitors’ entrance, readily visible to
passers-by, for 5 percent of visitor motorized vehicle parking capacity, with a
minimum of one two-bike capacity rack.99.05.106.4.2.  Long-Term Bicycle
Parking.  For buildings with over 10 occupants, based on the Los Angeles
Building Code, provide secure bicycle parking for 5 percent of motorized vehicle
parking capacity, with a minimum of one space.  Acceptable parking facilities
shall be convenient from the street and may include:	1.	Covered, lockable
enclosures with permanently anchored racks for bicycles;	2.	Lockable bicycle
rooms with permanently anchored racks; or	3.	Lockable, permanently anchored
bicycle lockers.	Note:  Additional information on recommended bicycle
accommodations may be obtained from Sacramento Bicycle
Advocates.99.05.106.5.2.  Designated Parking.  Provide designated parking, by
means of permanent marking or a sign, for any combination of low-emitting, fuel-
efficient, and carpool/van pool vehicles as follows:Table 5.106.5.2
  
    
      
        Total Number of Parking Spaces
      
      
        Number of Required Spaces
      
    
    
      
        0 – 9
      
      
        0
      
    
    
      
        10 – 25
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        26 – 50
      
      
        3
      
    
    
      
        51 – 75
      
      
        6
      
    
    
      
        76 – 100
      
      
        8
      
    
    
      
        101 – 150
      
      
        11
      
    
    
      
        151 – 200
      
      
        16
      
    
    
      
        201 and over
      
      
        At least 8 percent of total 1
      
    
  
  1	When the application of this regulation results in the requirement of a
fractional space, round up to the next whole number.99.05.106.5.3.1.  Electric
Vehicle Supply Wiring.  Provide a minimum number of 208/240 V 40 amp, grounded
AC outlet(s), that is equal to 5 percent of the total number of parking spaces,
rounded up to the next whole number.  The outlet(s) shall be located in the
parking area.99.05.106.8.  Light Pollution Reduction.  Comply with lighting
power requirements in the California Energy Code, California Code of Regulations
(CCR), Title 24, Part 6, and design interior and exterior lighting such that
zero direct-beam illumination leaves the building site. Meet or exceed exterior
light levels and uniformity ratios for lighting zones 1-4 as defined in Chapter
10 of the California Administrative Code, CCR, Title 24, Part 1, using the
following strategies:	1.	Shield all exterior luminaires or provide cutoff
luminaires per Section 132(b) of the California Energy Code;	2.	Contain interior
lighting within each source;	3.	Allow no more than .01 horizontal lumen
footcandles to escape 15 feet beyond the site boundary;	4.	Automatically control
exterior lighting dusk to dawn to turn off or lower light levels during inactive
periods.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Los Angeles Building Code, Division 12, Section 1205.6
for campus lighting requirements for parking facilities and
walkways.	2.	Emergency lighting and lighting required for nighttime
security.99.05.106.10.  Grading and Paving.  The site shall be planned and
developed to keep surface water from entering buildings.  Construction plans
shall indicate how site grading or a drainage system will manage all surface
water flows.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
