                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ENERGY REDUCTION. (§ 99.09.204)

  ENERGY REDUCTION.99.09.204.1.  Prescriptive Approach.  New equipment and
fixtures shall comply with the following where applicable:	1.	Installed
gas-fired space heating equipment shall have an Annual Fuel Utilization Ratio
(AFUE) of .90 or higher.	2.	Installed electric heat pumps shall have a Heating
Seasonal Performance Factor (HSFP) of 8.0 or higher.	3.	Installed cooling
equipment shall have a Seasonal Energy Efficiency Ratio (SEER) higher than 13.0
and an Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER) of at least 11.5.	4.	Installed tank type
water heaters shall have an Energy Factor (EF) higher than .6.	5.	Installed
tankless water heater shall have an Energy Factor (EF) higher than .80.	6.	For
new ducts, perform duct leakage testing to verify a total leakage rate of less
than 6 percent of the total fan flow.	7.	Building lighting in the kitchen and
bathrooms within the dwelling units shall consist of at least 90 percent ENERGY
STAR qualified hard-wired fixtures (luminaires).	8.	Installed swimming pool
circulating pump motors shall be multi-speed or variable-speed.  The pump motor
controls shall have the capability of operating the pump at a minimum of three
speeds; low speed, medium speed, and high speed.  The daily low speed shall not
exceed 300 watts.  The daily medium speed shall be
adjustable.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Projects exceeding the California Energy Code
requirements by 15 percent using an Alternative Calculation Method (ACM)
approved by the California Energy Commission.	2.	Addition and alterations to
buildings for which building plans were submitted for plan check and the plan
check fee was paid prior to June 1, 2011.
