                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RECYCLING BY OCCUPANTS. (§ 99.05.410)

99.05.410.1.  Recycling by Occupants.  Provide readily accessible areas that
serve the entire building and are identified for the depositing, storage, and
collection of non-hazardous materials for recycling, including (at a minimum)
paper, corrugated cardboard, glass, plastics and metals.99.05.410.2.5. 
Documentation and Training.  A Systems Manual and Systems Operations Training
are required, including Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) requirements
in California Code of Regulations (CCR), Title 8, Section 5142, and other
related regulations.99.05.410.2.5.1.  Systems Manual.  Documentation of the
operational aspects of the building shall be completed within the Systems Manual
and delivered to the building owner or representative and facilities operator. 
The Systems Manual shall include the following:	1.	Site information, including
facility description, history and current requirements;	2.	Site contact
information;	3.	Basic operations &#038; maintenance, including general site
operating procedures, basic trouble-shooting, recommended maintenance
requirements, site events log;	4.	Major systems;	5.	Site Equipment inventory and
maintenance notes;	6.	A copy of all special inspection verifications required by
the Department or this code;	7.	Other resources &#038;
documentation.99.05.410.4.5.  Operation and Maintenance (O&#038;M) Manual. 
Provide the building owner or representative with detailed operating and
maintenance instructions and copies of guaranties/warranties for each system. 
O&#038;M instructions shall be consistent with OSHA requirements in CCR, Title
8, Section 5142, and other related regulations.99.05.410.4.5.1.  Inspections
and Reports.  Include a copy of all inspection verifications and reports
required by the Department.
