                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RENEWABLE ENERGY. (§ 99.04.211)

  RENEWABLE ENERGY.99.04.211.4.  Future Access for Electrical Solar System. 
An electrical conduit shall be provided from the electrical service equipment to
an accessible location in the attic or other location suitable for future
connection to a solar system.  The conduit shall be adequately sized by the
designer but shall not be less than one inch.  The conduit shall be labeled as
per the Los Angeles Fire Department requirements. The electrical panel shall be
sized to accommodate the installation of a future electrical solar
system.	EXCEPTION:  Buildings designed and constructed with a solar
photovoltaic system or an alternate system with means of generating electricity
at time of final inspection.99.04.211.4.1.  Space for Future Electrical Solar
System Installation.  A minimum of 250 square feet of contiguous unobstructed
roof area shall be provided for the installation of future photovoltaic or other
electrical solar panels.  The location shall be suitable for installing future
solar panels as determined by the designer.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	For roofs with an
area of less than 1,000 square feet, the unobstructed space maybe reduced to 25
percent of the roof area;	2.	Buildings designed and constructed with a solar
photovoltaic system or an alternate system with renewable means of generating
electricity at the time of final inspection;	3.	Where it is not feasible to
provide one contiguous area due to the roof configuration, two unobstructed roof
areas with a minimum combined area of 250 square feet maybe
provided;	4.	Buildings designed with a green roof making it unfeasible to
provide this area.
