                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SITE DEVELOPMENT. (§ 99.09.106)

  SITE DEVELOPMENT.99.09.106.1.  General.  Preservation and use of available
natural resources shall be accomplished through evaluation and careful planning
to minimize negative effects on the site and adjacent areas.  Preservation of
slopes, management of storm water drainage and erosion controls shall comply
with this section.99.09.106.2.  Storm Water Drainage and Retention During
Construction.  Additions which disturb less than one acre of soil and are not
part of a larger common plan of development which in total disturbs one acre or
more, shall manage storm water drainage during construction.  In order to
manage storm water drainage during construction, one or more of the following
measures shall be implemented to prevent flooding of adjacent property, prevent
erosion and retain soil runoff on the site:	1.	Retention basins of sufficient
size shall be utilized to retain storm water on the site;	2.	Where storm water
is conveyed to a public drainage system, collection point, gutter or similar
disposal method, water shall be filtered by use of a barrier system, wattle or
other method approved by the Department;	3.	Compliance with City of Los
Angeles’ storm water management ordinance(s).99.09.106.3.  Surface
Drainage.  The site shall be planned and developed to keep surface water from
entering buildings.  Construction plans shall indicate how the site grading or
drainage system will manage surface water flows.  Examples of methods to manage
surface water include, but are not limited to, the
following:	1.	Swales;	2.	Water collection and disposal systems;	3.	French
drains;	4.	Water retention gardens; or	5.	Other water measures which keep
surface water away from building and aid in groundwater recharge.	EXCEPTION: 
Alterations and additions not effecting site drainage.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
