                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 99.05.302)

  DEFINITIONS.99.05.302.1.   The following words and terms shall, for the
purposes of this chapter and as used elsewhere in this code, have the meanings
shown herein.	GRAYWATER.  Untreated household waste which has not come into
contact with toilet waste.  Graywater includes used water from bathtubs,
showers, bathroom wash basins, and water from clothes washing machines and
laundry tubs.  It shall not include waste water from kitchen sinks,
dishwashers, or laundry water from soiled diapers.	MODEL WATER EFFICIENT
LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE.  The California ordinance regulating landscape design,
installation and maintenance practices that will ensure commercial, multifamily
and other developer installed landscapes greater than 2,500 square feet meet an
irrigation water budget developed based on landscaped area, and climatological
parameters.	POTABLE WATER.  Water that is drinkable and meets the U. S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Drinking Water Standards.  See definition
in the Los Angeles Plumbing Code.	RECYCLED WATER.  Water which, as a result of
treatment of waste, is suitable for a direct beneficial use or a controlled use
that would not otherwise occur (Water Code Section 13050(n)).  Simply put,
recycled water is water treated to remove waste matter attaining a quality that
is suitable to use the water again.	SUBMETER.  A meter installed subordinate to
a site meter.  Usually used to measure water intended for one purpose, such as
landscape irrigation.  For the purposes of this section, a dedicated meter may
be considered a submeter.	WATER BUDGET.  Estimated total landscape irrigation
water use shall not exceed the maximum applied water allowance calculated in
accordance with the Department of Water Resources Model Efficient Landscape
Ordinance (MLO).
