                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CITY OF LOS ANGELES LOW-RISE RESIDENTIAL CHECKLIST FOR NEWLY-CONSTRUCTED
BUILDINGS. (§ 99.11.602)

  CITY OF LOS ANGELES LOW-RISE RESIDENTIAL CHECKLIST FOR NEWLY-CONSTRUCTED
BUILDINGS.{Click here for a PDF version of this table}  
    
      
        Feature or Measure
      
      
        Levels
        Applicant to select elective measures
      
    
    
      
        Mandator y
      
      
        Prerequisites and electives 1
      
    
    
      
        Tier 1
      
      
        Tier 2
      
    
    
      
        PLANNING AND DESIGN
      
      
        
      
      
        	
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Site Selection
      
      
        
      
      
        	
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.103.1  A site which complies with at least one of the following
characteristics is selected:
          1.	An infill site is selected.
          2.	A greyfield site is selected.
          3.	An EPA-recognized Brownfield site is selected.
      
      
        
      
      
        
        
              
              
              
      
      
        
        
              
              
              
      
    
    
      
        Site Preservation
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.104.1  An individual with oversight responsibility for the project
has participated in an educational program promoting environmentally friendly
design or development and has provided training or instruction to appropriate
entities.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        Deconstruction and Reuse of Existing Materials
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.105.2  Existing buildings are disassembled for reuse or recycling of
building materials. The proposed structure utilizes at least one of the
following materials which can be easily reused:
          1.	Light fixtures
          2.	Plumbing fixtures
          3.	Doors and trim
          4.	Masonry (re-used for flatwork)
          5.	Electrical devices
          6.	Appliances
          7.	Foundations or portions of foundations
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        Site Development
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.2  A plan is developed and implemented to manage storm water
drainage during construction.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.3  The site shall be planned and developed to keep surface water
away from buildings.  Construction plans shall indicate how site grading or a
drainage system will manage all surface water flows.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.1  Orient buildings to optimize the use of solar energy with the
long side of the house oriented within 30º of south.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.2.1  Soil analysis is performed by a licensed design
professional and the findings utilized in the structural design of the building.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.2.2  Soil disturbance and erosion are minimized by at least one
of the following:
          1.	Natural drainage patterns are evaluated and erosion controls are
implemented to minimize erosion during construction and after occupancy.
          2.	Site access is accomplished by minimizing the amount of cut and
fill needed to install access roads and driveways.
          3.	Underground construction activities are coordinated to utilize the
same trench, minimize the amount of time the disturbed soil is exposed and the
soil is replaced using accepted compaction methods.
      
      
        
      
      
              
        
        
              
        
              
        
      
      
              
        
        
              
        
              
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.2.3  Topsoil shall be protected or saved for reuse as specified
in this section.
          Tier 1.	Displaced topsoil shall be stockpiled for reuse in a
designated area and covered or protected from erosion.
          Tier 2.	The construction area shall be identified and delineated by
fencing or flagging to limit construction activity to the construction area.
      
      
        
      
      
        
        
          X  2
        
        
        
        
      
      
          X  2
        
          X  2
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.3  Postconstruction landscape designs accomplish one or more of
the following:
          1.	Areas disrupted during construction are restored to be consistent
with native vegetation species and patterns.
          2.	Limit turf areas to the greatest extent possible.
        	a.  Not more than 50 percent for Tier 1.
        	b.  Not more than 25 percent for Tier 2.
          3.	Utilize at least 75 percent native Californian or drought tolerant
plant and tree species appropriate for the climate zone region.
          4.	Hydrozoning irrigation techniques are incorporated into the
landscape design.
      
      
        
      
      
        
              
        
        
              
        
        
              
        
               
      
      
        
              
        
        
        
              
        
              
        
               
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.4  Permeable paving is utilized for the parking, walking, or
patio surfaces in compliance with the following.
          Tier 1.	Not less than 20 percent of the total parking, walking, or
patio surfaces shall be permeable.
          Tier 2.	Not less than 30 percent of the total parking, walking, or
patio surfaces shall be permeable.
      
      
        
      
      
          X  2
        
      
      
        
        
        
          X  2
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.5  Roofing materials shall have a minimum 3-year aged solar
reflectance and thermal emittance or a minimum aged Solar Reflectance Index
(SRI) equal to or greater than the values specified in Tables A4.106.5(1) and
A4.106.5(2).
            Tier 1	Roof covering shall meet or exceed the values contained in
Table A4.106.5(1).
            Tier 2	Roof covering shall meet or exceed the values contained in
Table A4.106.5(2).
      
      
        
      
      
        
          X  2
      
      
        
        
        
        
        
          X  2
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.6  For one- or two-family dwellings and townhouses, provide a
minimum of:
          1.	A minimum number of 208/240 V 40 amp, grounded AC outlets equal to
five percent of the total number of parking spaces, or
          2.	Panel capacity and conduit installed for future installation of
electrical outlets, or
          3.	Additional service capacity, space for future meter, and conduit
for future installation of electrical outlets.
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.106.7  Bicycle parking. For multi-family dwellings, provide secure
bicycle parking for 15 percent of the total number of bedrooms.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        ENERGY EFFICIENCY
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        General
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Performance Approach
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.203.1  Exceed the California Energy Code requirements, based on the
2008 Energy Efficiency Standards requirements by 15 percent.
      
      
        
      
      
          X  2
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.203.1  Exceed the California Energy Code requirements, based on the
2008 Energy Efficiency Standards requirements by 30 percent.
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
          X  2
      
    
    
      
        Energy Reduction
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.204.1  Prescriptive Approach. Equipment and fixtures shall comply
with the following:
          1.	Installed gas-fired space heating equipment shall have an Annual
Fuel Utilization Ratio (AFUE) of .90 or higher.
          2.	Installed electric heat pumps shall have a Heating Seasonal
Performance Factor (HSFP) of 8.0 or higher.
          3.	Installed cooling equipment shall have a Seasonal Energy
Efficiency Ratio (SEER) higher than 13.0 and an Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER) of
at least 11.5.
          4.	Installed tank type water heaters shall have an Energy Factor (EF)
higher than .6.
          5.	Installed tankless water heater shall have an Energy Factor (EF)
higher than .80.
          6.	Perform duct leakage testing to verify a total leakage rate of
less than 6 percent of the total fan flow.
          7.	Building lighting in the kitchen and bathrooms shall consist of at
least 90 percent ENERGY STAR qualified hard-wired fixtures.
          8.	Installed swimming pool circulating pump and motor combinations
shall be multi-speed and variable-speed.  The pump motor controls shall have
the capability of operating the pump at a minimum of three speeds; low speed,
medium speed, and high speed.  The daily low speed shall not exceed 300 watts.
The daily medium speed shall be adjustable.
        	EXCEPTION: Projects exceeding the California Energy Code requirements
by 15 percent using an Alternative Calculation Method (ACM) approved by the
California Energy Commission.
      
      
        As applicable
          X  
        6/01/11
          X  
        6/01/11
          X  
        6/01/11
        
          X  
        6/01/11
          X  
        6/01/11
          X  
        6/01/11
          X  
        6/01/11
        
          X  
        6/01/11
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Building Envelope
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.205.1  Radiant roof barrier is installed in Climate Zones 2, 4, and
8 through 15.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.205.2  Exterior shading at least 18 inches in depth is provided on
south and west windows.
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Air Sealing Package
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A.4.206.1  Third party blower door test is conducted and passed to
verify building envelope tightness.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        HVAC Design, Equipment and Installation
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.207.1  Radiant, hydronic, ground source and other innovative space
heating and cooling systems included in the proposed design shall be designed
using generally accepted industry-approved guidelines and design criteria.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.207.2  An HVAC system commissioning plan is developed and the
following items, as appropriate, pertaining to the heating and cooling systems
are inspected and certified by an independent third party agency:
          1.	Verify compliance with the manufacturer’s recommended start-up
procedures.
          2.	Verify refrigerant charge by super-heat or other methods specified
by the manufacturer.
          3.	Burner is set to fire at the nameplate input rating.
          4.	Temperature drop across the evaporator is within the manufacturers
recommended range.
          5.	Test and verify air flow to be within ten percent of the initial
design air flow.
          6.	Static pressure within the duct system is within the
manufacturer’s acceptable range.
          7.	Verify that the whole house and exhaust ventilation systems meet
Title 24 requirements.
          8.	Verify that the recommended maintenance procedures and schedules
are documented and provided to the home owner.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.207.2.3  Results of the commissioning inspection shall be included
in the Operation and Maintenance Manual required in Section 4.410.1.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.207.4  Install gas-fired (natural or propane) space heating
equipment with an Annual Fuel Utilization Ratio (AFUE) of .90 or higher.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.207.5  If an electric heat pump must be used, select equipment with
a Heating Seasonal Performance Factor (HSPF) of 8.0 or higher.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.207.6  When climatic conditions necessitate the installation of
cooling equipment, select cooling equipment with a Seasonal Energy Efficiency
Ratio (SEER) higher than 13.0 and an Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER) of at least
11.5.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.207.7  Install ductwork to comply with at least one of the
following:
          1.	Install ducts within the conditioned envelope of the building.
          2.	Install ducts in an underfloor crawl space.
          3.	Use ducts with an R-6 insulation value or higher.
          4.	Install ductwork which is buried in the ceiling insulation.
      
      
        
      
      
        
              
              
              
              
      
      
        
              
              
              
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.207.8  Perform duct leakage testing to verify a total leakage rate
of less than 6 percent of the total fan flow.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.207.9  In climate zones 2, 4, and 8 through 15 install a whole-house
fan with insulated louvers or an insulated cover.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.207.10  ENERGY STAR ceiling fans are installed in all bedrooms and
living areas.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        Water Heating Design, Equipment and Installation
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.208.1  The Energy Factor (EF) for a gas fired storage water heater
is higher than .60.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.208.2  The Energy Factor (EF) for a gas fired tankless water heater
is .80 or higher.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.208.3  Where the hot water source is more than ten feet from a
fixture, the potable water distribution system shall convey hot water using a
method designed to minimize wait time for hot water to arrive at the fixture.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        Lighting
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.209.1  Building lighting consists of at least 90 percent ENERGY
STAR. qualified hard-wired fixtures.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        Appliances
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.210.1  Each appliance provided and installed meets ENERGY STAR if an
ENERGY STAR designation is applicable for that appliance.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Renewable Energy
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.211.1  Install a solar photovoltaic (PV) system in compliance with
the California Energy Commission New Solar Homes Partnership (NSHP).1, 2 Install
energy efficiency measures meeting either Tier I or Tier II below.
          Tier 1.	Exceed the California Energy Code requirements, based on the
2008 Energy Efficiency Standards requirements by 15 percent.
          Tier 2.	Exceed the California Energy Code requirements, based on the
2008 Energy Efficiency Standards requirements by 30 percent.
        Solar water heating may be used to assist in meeting the energy
efficiency requirements of either Tier I or Tier II.
          1	In addition, for either Tier I or II, each appliance provided by
the builder must be ENERGY STAR if an ENERGY designation is applicable for that
appliance.
          2	Information on NSHP incentives available through the California
Energy Commission may be obtained at the “Go Solar California” website:
www.GoSolarCalifornia.ca.gov/nshp/index.html.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.211.2  A solar water heating system is installed.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.211.3  Space on the roof surface and penetrations through the roof
surface are provided for future solar installation.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.211.4  A minimum one inch conduit is provided from the electrical
service equipment for the future installation of a photovoltaic (PV) or other
electrical solar system.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.211.4.1  A minimum of 250 square feet of contiguous unobstructed
roof area shall be provided for the installation of future photovoltaic or other
electrical solar panels. The location shall be suitable for installing future
solar panels as determined by the designer.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Elevators, Escalators and Other Equipment
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        WATER EFFICIENCY AND CONSERVATION
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Indoor Water Use
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.303.1  Indoor water use shall be reduced by at least 20 percent
using one of the follow methods.
          1.	Water saving fixtures or flow restrictors shall be used.
          2.	A 20 percent reduction in baseline water use shall be
demonstrated.
      
      
          X  
        7/01/11
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.403.2  When using the calculation method specified in Section
4.303.1, multiple showerheads shall not exceed maximum flow rates.
      
      
          X  
        7/01/11
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.303.3  Plumbing fixtures (water closets and urinals) and fittings
(faucets and showerheads) shall comply with specified performance requirements.
      
      
          X  
        7/01/11
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.303.1  Kitchen faucets and dishwashers shall comply with this
section.
          Tier 1.	The maximum flow rate at a kitchen sink faucet shall not be
greater than 1.5 gallons per minute at 60 psi.
          Tier 2.	In addition to the kitchen faucet requirements for Tier 1,
dishwashers in Tier 2 buildings shall be ENERGY STAR qualified and not use more
than 5.8 gallons of water per cycle.
      
      
        
      
      
          X  2
        
        
        
      
      
          X  2
        
          X  2
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.303.2  Nonwater supplied urinals are installed.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        Outdoor Water Use
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.304.1  Automatic irrigation systems installed at the time of final
inspection shall be weather-based.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.304.1  Install a low-water consumption irrigation system which
minimizes the use of spray type heads.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.304.2  A rainwater capture, storage and re-use system is designed
and installed.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.304.3  A water budget shall be developed for landscape irrigation.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.304.4  Provide water efficient landscape irrigation design that
reduces the use of potable water.
          Tier 1.	Does not exceed 65 percent of ETo times the landscape area.
          Tier 2.	Does not exceed 60 percent of ETo times the landscape area.
      
      
        
      
      
        
          X  2
      
      
        
        
        
          X  2
      
    
    
      
        A4.304.5  A landscape design is installed which does not utilize
potable water.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        WATER REUSE SYTEMS
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.305.1  Piping is installed to permit future use of a graywater
irrigation system served by the clothes washer or other fixtures.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.305.2  Recycled water piping is installed.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.305.3  Recycled water is used for landscape irrigation.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        MATERIAL CONSERVATION AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Foundation Systems
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.403.2  Cement use in foundation mix design is reduced.
          Tier 1.	Not less than a 20 percent reduction in cement use.
          Tier 2.	Not less than a 25 percent reduction in cement use.
      
      
        
      
      
          X  2
      
      
        
        
          X  2
      
    
    
      
        Efficient Framing Techniques
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.404.2  Building dimensions and layouts are designed to minimize
waste.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.404.3  Use pre-manufactured building systems to eliminate solid sawn
lumber whenever possible.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.404.4  Material lists are included in the plans which specify
material quantity and provide direction for on-site cuts.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        Material Sources
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.405.1  One or more of the following building materials, that do not
require additional resources for finishing are used at all applicable locations
throughout the building:
          1.	Exterior trim not requiring paint or stain.
          2.	Windows not requiring paint or stain.
          3.	Siding or exterior wall coverings which do not require paint or
stain.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.405.2  75 percent of all slab-on-grade and structural concrete slab
floors use no additional coverings including but not limited to stained,
natural, or stamped concrete floors.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.405.3  Post-consumer or pre-consumer recycled content value (RCV)
materials are used on the project.
          Tier 1.	Not less than a ten percent recycled content value.
          Tier 2.	Not less than a 15 percent recycled content value.
      
      
        
      
      
        
          X  2
      
      
        
        
        
          X  2
      
    
    
      
        A4.405.4  Renewable source building products are used for a minimum of
2.5 percent of the total value, based on estimated cost of materials on the
project.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        Enhanced Durability and Reduced Maintenance
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.406.1  Joints and openings.  Annular spaces around pipes, electric
cables, conduits, or other openings in plates at exterior walls shall be
protected against the passage of rodents by closing such openings with cement
mortar, concrete masonry or similar method acceptable to the Department.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Water Resistance and Moisture Management
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.407.1  Install foundation and landscape drains.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.407.2  Install gutter and downspout systems to route water at least
five feet away from the foundation or connect to landscape drains which
discharge to a dry well, sump, bioswale, rainwater capture system or other
approved on-site location.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.407.3  Provide flashing details on the building plans and comply
with accepted industry standards or manufacturer’s instructions.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.407.4  Protect building materials delivered to the construction site
from rain and other sources of moisture.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.407.6  Exterior doors to the dwelling are protected to prevent water
intrusion.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.407.7  When permitted by the Los Angeles Municipal Code, a permanent
overhang or non-retractable awning at least two feet in depth is provided.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        Construction Waste Reduction, Disposal and Recycling
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.408.1  Comply with Section 66.32 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code. 
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.408.1  Construction waste generated at the site is diverted to
recycle or salvage in compliance with one of the following:
          Tier 1.	At least a 65 percent reduction.
          Tier 2.	At least a 75 percent reduction.
      
      
        
      
      
        
          X  2
      
      
        
        
        
          X  2
      
    
    
      
        Building Maintenance and Operation
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.410.1  An operation and maintenance manual shall be provided to the
building occupant or owner.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Fireplaces
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.503.1  Any installed gas fireplace shall be a direct-vent
sealed-combustion type. Any installed wood stove or pellet stove shall comply
with US EPA Phase II emission limits where applicable. Wood stove, pellet stoves
and fireplaces shall also comply with applicable local ordinances.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Pollutant Control
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.1  Duct openings and other related air distribution component
openings shall be covered during construction.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.2.1  Adhesives, sealants and caulks shall be compliant with VOC
and other toxic compound limits.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.2.2  Paints, stains and other coatings shall be compliant with
VOC limits.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.2.3  Aerosol paints and coatings shall be compliant with product
weighted MIR limits for ROC and other toxic compounds.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.2.4  Documentation shall be provided to verify that compliant
VOC limit finish materials have been used.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.3  Carpet and carpet systems shall be compliant with VOC limits.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.4  50 percent of floor area receiving resilient flooring shall
comply with the VOC-emission limits defined in the Collaborative for High
Performance Schools (CHPS) Low-emitting Materials List or be certified under the
Resilient Floor Covering Institute (RCFI) FloorScore program.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.5  Particleboard, medium density fiberboard (MDF), and hardwood
plywood used in interior finish systems shall comply with low formaldehyde
emission standards.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.1  Meet the formaldehyde limits contained in Table 4.504.6
before the mandatory compliance date, or use composite wood products made with
either California Air Resources Board approved no-added formaldehyde (NAF)
resins or ultra-low emitting formaldehyde (ULEF) resins.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.2  Install VOC compliant resilient flooring systems.
          Tier 1.	At least 80 percent of the resilient flooring installed shall
comply.
          Tier 2.	At least 90 percent of the resilient flooring installed shall
comply.
      
      
        
      
      
          X  2
        
        
      
      
        
        
          X  2
      
    
    
      
        A4.504.3  Thermal insulation installed in the building shall meet the
following requirements:
          Tier 1.	Install thermal insulation in compliance with the
VOC-emission limits defined in Collaborative for High Performance Schools (CHPS)
Low-emitting Materials List.
          Tier 2.	Install insulation which contains No-Added Formaldehyde (NAF)
and is in compliance with the VOC-emission limits defined in Collaborative for
High Performance Schools (CHPS) Low-emitting Materials List.
      
      
        
      
      
          X  2
        
        
        
        
      
      
        
        
          X  2
      
    
    
      
        Interior Moisture Control
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.505.2  Vapor retarder and capillary break is installed at slab on
grade foundations.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.505.3  Moisture content of building materials used in wall and floor
framing is checked before enclosure.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Indoor Air Quality and Exhaust
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.506.1  Exhaust fans which terminate outside the building are
provided in every bathroom.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.506.1  Higher than MERV 6 filters are installed on central air or
ventilation systems.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        A4.506.2  Direct vent appliances are used or equipment is isolated from
the conditioned space.
      
      
        
      
      
              
      
      
              
      
    
    
      
        Environmental Comfort
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.507.1  Whole house exhaust fans shall have insulated louvers or
covers which close when the fan is off.  Covers or louvers shall have a minimum
insulation value of R-4.2.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A4.507.2  Duct systems are sized, designed, and equipment is selected
using the following methods:
          1.	Establish heat loss and heat gain values according to ACCA Manual
J or equivalent.
          2.	Size duct systems according to ACCA 29-D (Manual D) or equivalent.
          3.	Select heating and cooling equipment according to ACCA 36-S
(Manual S) or equivalent.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Outdoor Air Quality
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Innovative Concepts and Local Environmental Conditions
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        INSTALLER AND THIRD PARTY QUALIFICATIONS
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Qualifications
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A702.1  HVAC system installers are trained and certified in the proper
installation of HVAC systems.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A702.2  Special inspectors employed by the Department must be qualified
and able to demonstrate competence in the discipline they are inspecting.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        Verifications
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        A703.1  Verification of compliance with this code may include
construction documents, plans, specifications builder or installer
certification, inspection reports, or other methods acceptable to the Department
which show substantial conformance.
      
      
          X  
      
      
        
      
      
        
      
    
  
  1  Required prerequisite for this Tier.
