                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION. (§ 99.10.410)

  BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION.99.10.410.1.  Recycling by Occupants. 
Additions exceeding 30 percent of existing floor area shall provide readily
accessible areas that serve the entire building and are identified for the
depositing, storage, and collection of non-hazardous materials for recycling,
including (at a minimum) paper, corrugated cardboard, glass, plastic, and
metals.99.10.410.2.  (Reserved)99.10.410.3.  (Reserved)99.10.410.4.  Testing
and Adjusting.  Testing and adjusting of systems shall be required for any new
system.99.10.410.4.1.  (Reserved)99.10.410.4.2.  Systems.  Develop a written
plan of procedures for testing and adjusting new systems. Systems to be included
for testing and adjusting shall include at a minimum, as applicable to the
project:	1.	HVAC systems and controls;	2.	Indoor and outdoor lighting and
controls;	3.	Water heating systems;	4.	Renewable energy systems;	5.	Landscape
irrigation systems;	6.	Water reuse systems.99.10.410.4.3.  Procedures. 
Perform testing and adjusting procedures in accordance with industry best
practices and applicable standards on each system as determined by the building
official.99.10.410.4.3.1.  HVAC Balancing.  In addition to testing and
adjusting, before a new space- conditioning system serving a building or space
is operated for normal use, the system shall be balanced in accordance with the
procedures defined by the Testing Adjusting and Balancing Bureau National
Standards; the National Environmental Balancing Bureau Procedural Standards; or
Associated Air Balance Council National Standards or as approved by the building
official.99.10.410.4.4.  Reporting.  After completion of testing, adjusting
and balancing, provide a final report of testing signed by the individual
responsible for performing these services.99.10.410.4.5.  Operation and
Maintenance (O&#038;M) Manual.  Provide the building owner or representative
with detailed operating and maintenance instructions and copies of
guaranties/warranties for each new system.  O&#038;M instructions shall be
consistent with OSHA requirements in CCR, Title 8, Section 5142, and other
related regulations.99.10.410.4.5.1.  Inspections and Reports.  Include a copy
of all inspection verifications and reports required by the Department.
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
